<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Composite//EN"
 "ibm-ditabase.dtd">
<dita xml:lang="en-us">
<topic id="glossary" outputclass="glossary" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Glossary</title>
<glossentry id="_1pct_confidence_interval_for_difference" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">^1% Confidence Interval for Difference</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The confidence interval for the difference in the mean values of a given pairwise
comparison.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percent_confidence_interval" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">^1% Confidence Interval</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An interval constructed so that under a model’s assumptions, exactly or 
approximately _% of such intervals will contain the true value of an estimated statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percent_confidence_interval_diff" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">^1% Confidence Interval of the Difference</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A confidence interval is an interval constructed so that under a model’s assumptions, 
exactly or approximately _% of such intervals will contain the true value of an estimated statistic. 
A confidence interval for the difference in two proportions is an interval for the population difference 
in two paired or independent proportions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_i_1_j_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">(I) ^1, (J) ^1</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Levels of the factor for which pairwise comparisons are requested. The mean difference
I-J is tested.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="casenum_system_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">$CASENUM</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def"> Current case sequence number. For each case, $CASENUM is the number of cases read up
to and including that case. The format is F8.0. The value of $CASENUM is not necessarily the row
number in a Data Editor window (available in windowed environments), and the value changes if the
file is sorted or new cases are inserted before the end of the file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="date_system_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">$DATE</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def"> Current date in international date format with two-digit year. The format is A9 in the
form dd-mmm-yy. </ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="date11_system_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">$DATE11</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def"> Current date in international date format with four-digit year. The format is A11 in
the form dd-mmm-yyyy.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="jdate_system_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">$JDATE</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def"> Current date in number of days from October 14, 1582 (day 1 of the Gregorian
calendar). The format is F6.0.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sysmis_system_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">$SYSMIS</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def"> System-missing value. The system-missing value displays as a period (.) or whatever is
used as the decimal indicator. </ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="time_system_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">$TIME</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def"> Current date and time. $TIME represents the number of seconds from midnight, October
14, 1582, to the date and time when the transformation command is executed. The format is F20. You
can display this as a date in a number of different date formats. You can also use it in date and
time functions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_pct_of_cases_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">% of cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value graphed represents the number of cases in each category, expressed as a
percentage of the total number of cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_pct_of_total" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">% of Total</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the total percentage falling into the defined category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_pct_of_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">% of Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the percentage of the variable falling into the defined cell.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_pct_of_variance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">% of variance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of variance in the observed variables accounted for by the factor.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_lt_1_missing" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">&lt; 1 missing</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This procedure treat values &lt; 1 as missing. If you want to use them in the analysis,
recode them to values >= 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_lt_control" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">&lt; Control</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Tests if the mean at any level of the factor is smaller than that of the control
category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_gt_control" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">> Control</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Tests if the mean at any level of the factor is larger than that of the control
category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_25th_percentile" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">25th Percentile</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value above which 75 percent of the observed cases fall and below which 25 percent
of the observed cases fall.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_-2_log_likelihood_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">-2 Log Likelihood</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of how well the model fits the data, also called the deviance. The smaller
the value the better the fit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_-2_log_likelihood" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">-2 Log Likelihood</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of how well the model fits the data, also called the deviance. The smaller
the value the better the fit. In stepwise methods, the change in -2 log likelihood tests the null
hypothesis that the coefficients of the terms removed from the model are zero.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_-2_log-likelihood" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">-2 log-likelihood</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of how well the model fits the data, also called the deviance. The smaller
the value the better the fit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_-2_log_likelihood_for_the_reduced_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">-2 log likelihood for the reduced model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is the -2 log likelihood for the model when the effect is removed from the fitted
model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_2-sided" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">2-sided</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Pairwise multiple comparison t test that compares a set of treatments against a single
control mean. Tests that the mean at any level (except the control category) of the factor is not
equal to that of the control category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_2-way_interaction" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">2-Way Interaction</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Limits the maximum order of factor interaction in the model to 2.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_3-d_scatterplot" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">3-D Scatterplot</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Plots 3 variables on three axes. The points are plotted in a 3-D coordinate system that
can be rotated by editing the chart after it appears in the Viewer.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_3-way_interaction" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">3-Way Interaction</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Limits the maximum order of factor interaction in the model to 3.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_4th_order_term" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">4th Order Term</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the results of the 4th-degree polynomial term. A 4th-degree polynomial term is
the term with a variable raised to the 4th power.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_4-way_interaction" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">4-Way Interaction</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Limits the maximum order of factor interaction in the model to 4.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_5pct_trimmed_mean" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">5% Trimmed Mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The arithmetic mean calculated when the largest 5% and the smallest 5% of the cases
have been eliminated. Eliminating extreme cases from the computation of the mean results in a better
estimate of central tendency, especially when the data are nonnormal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_50th_percentile" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">50th Percentile</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The median. The value above and below which half the observed values of a variable
fall.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_5th_order_term" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">5th Order Term</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the results of the 5th-degree polynomial term. A 5th-degree polynomial term is
the term with a variable raised to the 5th power.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_5-way_interaction" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">5-Way Interaction</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Limits the maximum order of factor interaction in the model to 5.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_75th_percentile" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">75th Percentile</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value above which 25 percent of the observed cases fall and below which 75 percent
of the observed cases fall.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_95pct_confidence_interval" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">95% Confidence Interval</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">If the 95% confidence interval does not contain 1, this indicates that the incidence
rates of the defined event are not the same for the two groups.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="_95pct_trimmed_range" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">95% Trimmed Range</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Bootstrapping produces parameter estimates for each repeated sample. The bounds of the
95% trimmed range are produced by taking the 2.5th and 97.5th percentiles of the set of
estimates.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="a" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">A</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Phantom group A contains Category, N, Observed Proportion, Test Proportion, and
Asymptotic Significance.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="aad" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">AAD</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Average Absolute Deviation. The result of summing the absolute deviations of the ratios
about the median and dividing the result by the total number of ratios.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="abs_numexpr" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">ABS(numexpr)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">ABS(numexpr). Numeric. Returns the absolute value of numexpr, which must be
numeric.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="absolute_extreme_difference" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Absolute Extreme Difference</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The largest absolute difference between two cumulative distribution functions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="absolute_values" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Absolute Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Similarity or dissimilarity measures with signs removed. Used when the only information
of interest is the magnitudes of relationships.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="accounted_for" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Accounted for</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The inertia for each dimension divided by total inertia.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="activation_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Activation Function</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The activation function "links" the weighted sums of units in a layer to the values of
units in the succeeding layer.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="activation_function_rbf" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Activation Function (RBF)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The activation function for the hidden layer is the radial basis function, which
"links" the units in a layer to the values of units in the succeeding layer. For the output layer,
the activation function is the identity function, thus the output units are simply weighted sums of
the hidden units.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="active_cases_with_missing_values" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Active Cases with Missing Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases (objects) that could be used to determine a solution that have
missing values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="working_data_file" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Active Dataset</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The dataset that is currently active. When you open a data file, it becomes the active
dataset. All analysis is performed on the active dataset, and most analytical commands are
unavailable unless you have an active dataset.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<!--commented out because it doesn't appear to be used anywhere and caused translation confusion
<glossentry id="active_margin" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm> <term id="term">Active margin</term> </glossterm>
<glossdef> <ph id="def">The total for each category of a variable
over the categories of the other variable.</ph> </glossdef></glossentry>-->
<glossentry id="active_proximities" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Active Proximities</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of nonmissing proximities.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="active_total" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Active total</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays summary statistics for the active (not supplementary) points.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="actual" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Actual</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The actual number or proportion of units sampled.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="actual_pct_outside_lsl" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Actual % &lt; LSL</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The observed percentage outside the lower specification limit. A point is defined
outside the lower specification limit when its value is less than or equal to the lower
specification limit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="actual_pct_outside_usl" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Actual % > USL</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The observed percentage outside the upper specification limit. A point is defined
outside the upper specification limit when its value is greater than or equal to the upper
specification limit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="actual_pct_outside" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Actual % outside</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The observed percentage outside the specification limits. A point is defined as outside
the specification limits when its value is greater than or equal to the upper specification limit or
is less than or equal to the lower specification limit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="actual_group" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Actual Group</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The actual group the case belongs to.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ad1_rho_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">AD1 rho ^1</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A correlation term for the First-Order Ante-Dependence covariance structure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="add" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Add</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Adds a value to the list.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="add_aggregated_variables_to_working_data_file" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Add aggregated variables to active dataset</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">New variables based on aggregate functions are added to the active dataset. The data
file itself is not aggregated. Each case with the same value(s) of the break variable(s) receives
the same values for the new aggregate variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="additive" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Additive</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An outlier that affects a single observation. For example, a data coding error might be
identified as an additive outlier.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="additive_patch" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Additive patch</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A group of two or more consecutive additive outliers. Selecting this outlier type
results in the detection of individual additive outliers in addition to groups of them.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gseasadd" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Additive Seasonal Adjustment</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The seasonal adjustments are added to the seasonally adjusted series to obtain the
observed values. This adjustment attempts to remove the seasonal effect from a series in order to
look at other characteristics of interest that may be "masked" by the seasonal component. In effect,
seasonal components that do not depend on the overall level of the series. Observations without
seasonal variation have a seasonal component of 0.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="exsm_sadd" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Additive Seasonal Component (Exponential Smoothing)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The series has seasonal variation that is additive: the magnitude of seasonal variation
does not depend on the overall level of the series.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="add_to_file_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Add to file</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The new series created by Seasonal Decomposition are saved as regular variables in your
active dataset. Variable names are formed from a three-letter prefix, an underscore, and a
number.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="add_to_file" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Add to file</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The new series are saved as regular variables in your active dataset. Variable names
are formed from a three-letter prefix, an underscore, and a number.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="adjusted" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Adjusted</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Values adjusted for cells with an expected count of 0.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="adjusted_for_independents" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Adjusted for Independents</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The adjusted mean values for each category expressed as deviations from the grand mean
when other independent factors are adjusted for.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="adjusted_for_independents_and_covariates" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Adjusted for Independents and Covariates</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The adjusted mean values for each category expressed as deviations from the grand mean
when other independent factors and covariates are adjusted for.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="adjusted_predicted_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Adjusted Predicted Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The predicted value for a case when that case is excluded from the calculation of the
regression coefficients.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="adjusted_residual_general_loglinear" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Adjusted Residual (General Loglinear)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The standardized residual divided by its estimated standard error. Since the adjusted
residuals are asymptotically standard normal when the selected model is correct, they are preferred
over the standardized residuals for checking for normality.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="adjusted_residual_sum_of_squares" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Adjusted Residual Sum of Squares</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Equal to the residual sum of squares adjusted for the covariation between the
observations.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="adjusted_r_squared" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Adjusted R-Squared</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The sample R squared tends to optimistically estimate how well the models fits the
population. The model usually does not fit the population as well as it fits the sample from which
it is derived. Adjusted R squared attempts to correct R squared to more closely reflect the goodness
of fit of the model in the population.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="adjusted_standardized_residual" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Adjusted Standardized Residual</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The residual for a cell (observed minus expected value) divided by an estimate of its
standard error. The resulting standardized residual is expressed in standard deviation units above
or below the mean.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="aempirical" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Aempirical</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A method of estimating percentiles using the empirical distribution function with
averaging.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="after_effects" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">After Effects</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Enters the covariates after the factor effects are evaluated. Available only if one or
more covariates are in the model and the Hierarchical or Experimental method is used.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="after_transformation_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">After Transformation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Statistics in this category apply to the quantified (optimally scaled) variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="agglomeration_schedule" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Agglomeration Schedule</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The results of the cluster analysis are summarized in a listing of the cluster numbers
being combined at each stage in the cluster analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="agglomerative_hierarchical_clustering" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Agglomerative Hierarchical Clustering</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A method for creating clusters in which each case starts out as a cluster. At every
step, clusters are combined until all cases are members of a single cluster. Once a cluster is
formed it cannot be split, it can only be combined with other clusters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="agresti_caffo" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Agresti-Caffo</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Interval based on adjusting the classical Wald interval by first adding one success and 
one failure to each group. A recommended method for larger sample sizes.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="agresti_coull" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Agresti-Coull</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An adjusted version of the original Wald interval. A recommended method for sample sizes over 40.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="agresti_min" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Agresti-Min</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Adjusted version of the classical asymptotic Wald interval adding pseudo-observations. Tends to be 
shorter than alternatives, but coverage levels are often below nominal levels.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="aic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">AIC</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure for selecting and comparing mixed models based on the -2 (Restricted) log
likelihood. Smaller values indicate better models. The AIC "penalizes" overparametrized models.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="aicc" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">AICC</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure for selecting and comparing mixed models based on the -2 (Restricted) log
likelihood. Smaller values indicate better models. The AICC "corrects" the AIC for small sample
sizes. As the sample size increases, the AICC converges to the AIC.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="aic_change" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">AIC change</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The difference in Akaike Information Criterion between the given model and the next
smaller model. Thus, the AIC change for 2 clusters is the difference in the AIC between the model
with 2 clusters and the model with 1 cluster.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="aic_reduced" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">AIC reduced</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is the AIC for the model when the effect is removed from the fitted model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="akaike_information_criterion" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Akaike Information Criterion</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A statistic that helps you choose between models. The AIC takes into account both how
well the model fits the observed series, and the number of parameters used in the fit. Smaller
values of the AIC indicate better models.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="akaike_information_criterion_aic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Akaike Information Criterion (AIC)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A statistic that helps you decide the order of a model. The AIC takes into account both
how well the model fits the observed series, and the number of parameters used in the fit. Look for
a model that adequately describes the series and has the minimum AIC.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="akaike_information_criterion_aic_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Akaike Information Criterion (AIC)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure for selecting and comparing models based on the -2 log likelihood. Smaller
values indicate better models. The AIC "penalizes" overparameterized models (complex models with a
large number of inputs, for example).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry xml:lang="en-us" id="akaike_information_criterion_aic_2">
<glossterm>
<term>Akaike Information Criterion (AIC)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure for selecting and comparing models based on the -2 reduced log likelihood.
Smaller values indicate better models. The AIC "penalizes" overparameterized models (complex models
with a large number of inputs, for example).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="alignment" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Alignment</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Defined alignment (left, right, center).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="all_22" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">All</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This row contains the results of the test of the joint hypothesis for all logits.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="all_cases_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">All Cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Turns case filtering off and uses all cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="all_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">All Cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Includes all cases in the casewise diagnostic information. For large files the output
will be lengthy, since a line is displayed for each case.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="all_cases_constant" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">All Cases Constant</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">All valid cases take the same value for these variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="all_cases_missing" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">All Cases Missing</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The values of all cases are missing for these variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="all_categories_equal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">All Categories Equal</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">All categories have equal expected values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="all_clusters" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">All Clusters</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays icicle plot for all cluster solutions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="all_groups_equal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">All Groups Equal</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Prior probabilities of group membership are assumed to be equal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="all_other_values" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">All Other Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Any remaining values not included in one of the specifications on the Old-New list.
This appears as ELSE on the Old-New list.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="all_points_equal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">All points equal</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Moving averages are calculated with a span equal to the periodicity and with all points
weighted equally. This method is always used if the periodicity is odd.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="alpha" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Alpha</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The significance level used for rejecting the null hypothesis. The probability of
rejecting the null hypothesis when in fact the null hypothesis is true. Commonly used alpha values
are 0.01, 0.05, and 0.10.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="alpha_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Alpha Factoring</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A factor extraction method that considers the variables in the analysis to be a sample
from the universe of potential variables. This method maximizes the alpha reliability of the
factors.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gexsmooth05" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Alpha (Exponential Smoothing)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Exponential smoothing parameter that controls the relative weight given to recent
observations, as opposed to the overall series mean. When alpha equals 1, the single most recent
observation is used exclusively; when alpha equals 0, old observations count just as heavily as
recent ones. Alpha is used for all models.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="alpha_homogeneous_subsets" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Alpha (Homogeneous Subsets)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Each column displays the subset of means that do not differ from one another. The alpha
value is displayed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="alpha_level_and_trend" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Alpha (Level and Trend)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The single parameter for a Brown's linear trend model. It controls the relative weight
given to recent observations in estimating both the series level and trend. It ranges from 0 to 1,
with higher values giving more weight to recent observations.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="alphabetical" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Alphabetical</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Sorts the variables alphabetically by name or by variable label.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="alphanumeric_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Alphanumeric Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A variable whose values are stored as characters and are not available for arithmetic
operations. The values can contain letters or special characters as well as numbers. Also known as
string variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="alternative" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Alternative</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The alternative hypothesis value of the proportion or correlation parameter.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="alternative_correlation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Alternative</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The alternative hypothesis value of the correlation parameter.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="amemiyas_prediction_criterion_pc" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Amemiya's Prediction Criterion (PC)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A criterion for model selection. It is akin to adjusted R-squared, with a higher
penalty for adding variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="analysis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Analysis</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the analysis variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="analysis_information" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Analysis Information</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">These fields provide information useful to analysis of the sample.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="analysis_n" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Analysis N</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases used for analysis</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="analysis_of_variance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Analysis of Variance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Analysis of variance, or ANOVA, is a method of testing the null hypothesis that several
group means are equal in the population, by comparing the sample variance estimated from the group
means to that estimated within the groups.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="analysis_of_variance_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Analysis of Variance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Used to test the hypothesis that there is no linear relationship between the dependent
variable and the independent variable(s). The total variation in the dependent variable is divided
into two components--one that can be attributed to a particular regression model (labeled
Regression) and one that cannot (labeled Residual). If the observed significance level for the
F-test is small, the hypothesis that there is no linear relationship can be rejected.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ancillary_parameter" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Ancillary Parameter</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A fixed parameter (k) of the negative binomial distribution. When k=0, the distribution
reduces to the Poisson distribution. When k=1, the distribution is equivalent to the Geometric
distribution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="anderbergs_d_distance_and_proximities_measures" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Anderberg's D (Distance and Proximities Measures)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Similarity measure for binary data. Assesses the predictability of the state (presence
or absence) of a characteristic on one item, given the state of the other. Measures the actual
reduction in the error probability when one item is used to predict the other. D ranges from 0 to
1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="anderson-rubin_method" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Anderson-Rubin Method</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A method of estimating factor score coefficients; a modification of the Bartlett method
which ensures orthogonality of the estimated factors. The scores that are produced have a mean of 0,
have a standard deviation of 1, and are uncorrelated.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="andrews_wave" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Andrews' Wave</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A type of redescending M-estimator that does not have abrupt changes in the weights
assigned to cases. Instead, a smooth sine curve is used to determine case weights. Standardized
values in absolute value greater than c are assigned a weight of 0.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="annotation_charts" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Annotation (Charts)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies text labels placed on the chart. After specifying the text and position for
the annotation, click Add or Change to update the annotations list.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="anomaly_index" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Anomaly Index</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The anomaly index is a measure that reflects the unusualness of a case with respect to
its peer group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="anova_table" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">ANOVA table</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays an analysis-of-variance table which includes univariate F tests for each
clustering variable. The F tests are only descriptive and the resulting probabilities should not be
interpreted. The ANOVA table is not displayed if all cases are assigned to a single cluster.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="anova_table_and_eta" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">ANOVA Table and Eta</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays a one-way analysis-of-variance table and calculates eta and eta-squared
(measures of association) for each independent variable in the first layer.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="anscombe" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Anscombe</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Adjusted version of the logit interval. It is shorter, but has poor coverage properties.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="anti-image_matrices_factor_analysis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Anti-Image Matrices (Factor Analysis)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The anti-image correlation matrix contains the negatives of the partial correlation
coefficients, and the anti-image covariance matrix contains the negatives of the partial
covariances. In a good factor model, most of the off-diagonal elements will be small. The measure of
sampling adequacy for a variable is displayed on the diagonal of the anti-image correlation
matrix.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="any_test_value_value_..." xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">ANY(test,value[,value,...])</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">ANY(test,value[,value,...]). Logical. Returns 1 or true if the value of test matches
any of the subsequent values; returns 0 or false otherwise. This function requires two or more
arguments. For example, ANY(var1, 1, 3, 5) returns 1 if the value of var1 is 1, 3, or 5 and 0 for
other values. ANY can also be used to scan a list of variables or expressions for a value. For
example, ANY(1, var1, var2, var3) returns 1 if any of the three specified variables has a value of 1
and 0 if all three variables have values other than 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="apply_from_previous_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Apply from previous model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The parameter estimates from the previous execution of ARIMA (in the same session) are
used as initial estimates. This can save time if the data and model are similar to the last one
used.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="applymodel_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">ApplyModel(handle,"function",category)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">ApplyModel(handle, "function", value). Numeric. Applies a particular scoring function
to the input case data using the model specified by handle and where "function" is one of the
following string literal values enclosed in quotes: predict, stddev, probability, confidence,
nodeid, cumhazard, neighbor, distance. The model handle is the name associated with the external XML
file, as defined on the MODEL HANDLE command. The optional third argument applies when the function
is "probability", "neighbor", or "distance". For "probability", it specifies a category for which
the probability is calculated. For "neighbor" and "distance", it specifies a particular neighbor (as
an integer) for nearest neighbor models. ApplyModel returns system-missing if a value can not be
computed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="approximately" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Approximately</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Generates a random sample of approximately the specified percentage of cases. Since
this routine makes an independent pseudorandom decision for each case, the percentage of cases
selected can only approximate the specified percentage. The more cases there are in the data file,
the closer the percentage of cases selected is to the specified percentage.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="approximate_probability" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Approximate Probability</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The observed significance level has been estimated using an approximation. That is, the
significance level printed is not exact, but is based on a formula that usually results in values
close to the true ones.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="approximate_t" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Approximate t</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Transformation of a statistic so that the t distribution can be used in significance
calculations.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ar1_diagonal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">AR1: diagonal</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This parameter defines the diagonal elements of a First-Order Autoregressive covariance
matrix.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ar1_rho" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">AR1: rho</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This parameter defines the correlation between two successive levels of an effect in a
First-Order Autoregressive covariance matrix.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="area_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Area</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An estimate of the true area under the ROC curve. It is the probability that when
"positive" and "negative" cases are randomly selected, the model assigns a higher score to the
positive case than to the negative.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry xml:lang="en-us" id="area_4">
<glossterm>
<term>Area</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph>The area under the ROC curve, or AUC.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="area_below_the_curve" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Area Below the Curve</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies whether the area below a curve is filled. If the plotted variable has missing
or negative values, the area is not filled.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="area_to_the_left_of_the_curve" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Area to the Left of the Curve</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">For plots where the independent variable is along the vertical axis, this specifies
whether the area to the left of the curve is filled. If the plotted variable has missing or negative
values, the area is not filled.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">ARIMA</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">AutoRegressive Integrated Moving Average. A general model widely used in time series
analysis. Based upon prior investigation of the behavior of a series, you specify three numbers that
represent the order of autoregression (p), the degree of differencing (d), and the order of moving
average (q). The general model is written as ARIMA(p,d,q). The model can be extended to incorporate
seasonality.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="arma_1_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">ARMA(1,1)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is a first-order autoregressive moving average structure. It has homogenous
variances. The correlation between two elements is equal to phi*rho for adjacent elements,
phi*(rho^2) for elements separated by a third, and so on. rho and phi are the autoregressive and
moving average parameters, respectively, and their values are constrained to lie between -1 and 1,
inclusive.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="arma11_diagonal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">ARMA11 diagonal</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A variance term for the ARMA(1,1) covariance structure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="arma11_phi" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">ARMA11 phi</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The moving average parameter for the ARMA(1,1) covariance structure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="arma11_rho" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">ARMA11 rho</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The autoregressive term for the ARMA(1,1) covariance structure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="arsin_numexpr" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">ARSIN(numexpr)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">ARSIN(numexpr). Numeric. Returns the inverse sine (arcsine), in radians, of numexpr,
which must evaluate to a numeric value between -1 and +1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="artan_numexpr" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">ARTAN(numexpr)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">ARTAN(numexpr). Numeric. Returns the inverse tangent (arctangent), in radians, of
numexpr, which must be numeric.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ascending" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Ascending</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays row variable values in ascending order from lowest to highest.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ascending_counts" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Ascending Counts</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Arranges the frequency table according to the frequency of occurrence of the values.
Frequencies are arranged in ascending order (least frequent to most frequent).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ascending_means" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Ascending Means</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Sorts the variables in ascending order (smallest to largest) of the Mean
statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ascending_values" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Ascending Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Arranges the frequency table according to the actual data values in ascending order
(smallest to largest value).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="as_is_crosstabs_case_weights" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">As is (Crosstabs case weights)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Case weights are used as is and fractional cell counts are used. However, when Exact
Statistics (available only with Sampling and Testing) are requested, the accumulated weights in the
cells are either truncated or rounded before computing the Exact test statistics.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="association_tree" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Association</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Measures the similarity between a surrogate predictor and the primary predictor for a
split at a node. Ranges in value from 0 to 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="assumes_equal_variances" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Assumes Equal Variances</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the results with the assumption that the population variances are equal. If
the population variances are unequal, these results may not be valid.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="assumptions" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Assumptions</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the assumptions. The population variances are assumed to be equal or no
assumptions are made about the population variances.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="assumptions_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Assumptions</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays statistics and tests under the assumptions of equal variances and unequal
variances.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="asymptotic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Asymptotic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">These are the "usual" parameter estimates, obtained via the sequential quadratic
programming algorithm or the Levenberg-Marquardt algorithm.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="asymptotic_approximations" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Asymptotic Approximations</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Approximations based on large samples. Used when it is not possible to obtain exact
confidence intervals for each of the parameters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="asymptotic_confidence_interval" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Asymptotic Confidence Interval</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The confidence interval based on the asymptotic distribution of a test statistic. A
range of values that has an N% chance of including the population value of the parameter estimate.
You can change the level of the confidence interval. Typical confidence levels are 90, 95, and
99.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="asymptotic_significance_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">asymptotic significance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">There are some situations in which the distribution of a test statistic is not well
defined. Often, however, as the number of observations used to compute the statistic increases, its
distribution begins to approximate a known distribution. This well-defined distribution is then used
to calculate the significance value of the test statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="asymptotic_significance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Asymptotic Significance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The significance level based on the asymptotic distribution of a test statistic.
Typically, a value of less than 0.05 is considered significant. The asymptotic significance is based
on the assumption that the data set is large. If the data set is small or poorly distributed, this
may not be a good indication of significance.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="asymptotic_standard_error" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Asymptotic Standard Error</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The standard error is a measure of how much the value of a statistic varies from sample to sample. 
It is the standard deviation of the sampling distribution for a statistic. For example, the standard error of 
the mean is the standard deviation of the sample means. An asymptotic estimate of the standard error of a statistic 
is an estimate that approaches the true value as the sample size increases, so it is a better estimate for large 
data sets than it is for small ones.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="at_least_one_missing_discriminating_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">At Least One Missing Discriminating Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Indicates the number of cases where at least one discriminating variable is
missing.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="at_mean_of_covariates" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">at mean of covariates</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The estimated functions evaluated at the mean of the covariates</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry xml:lang="en-us" id="auc_difference">
<glossterm>
<term>AUC Difference</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph>The difference between the areas under two ROC curves.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="autocorrelation_function_acf" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Autocorrelation Function (ACF)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Correlations of a series with lagged values of itself; also known as serial
correlation. The autocorrelation function is often represented as a plot. The ACF plot is a useful
identification and diagnostic aid.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gacf07" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Autocorrelations</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Correlates the values of a series with the values lagged by 1 or more cases.
Autocorrelations are calculated for lags of 1, 2, ..., up to a specified number.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="automatic_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Automatic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">ARIMA chooses initial values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="automatic_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Automatic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The program calculates suitable starting and trend values from the data. This is
usually desirable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="autoregressive_orders_ar" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Autoregressive (AR) Orders</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies that the model contains autoregressive orders. The details for each lag
(order) are provided.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="autoregressive_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Autoregressive Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Model of a time series in which the current value of the series is a linear combination
of previous values of the series, plus a random error.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="garima01" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Autoregressive Order (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of autoregressive parameters in the model. Specify a non-negative integer.
Each parameter measures the independent effect of values with a specified lag. Thus, an
autoregressive order of 2 means that a series value is affected by the preceding two values
(independently of one another).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="averaged_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Averaged Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The transformed variable that is the average of dependent variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="average_log-likelihood" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Average Log-Likelihood</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The (conditional) log-likelihood divided by the number of cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="average_matrix" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Average Matrix</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Transformation coefficients matrix averaged over the measures.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="average_measures" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Average Measures</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Average measure applies to the average of multiple measurements, for example, the
average rating for k judges, or the average score for a k-item test.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="averate_matrix" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Averate Matrix</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The transformation matrix that corresponds to the transformation for the
between-subjects test. The dimension is the number of measures.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gaxis02" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Axis Scale</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The numerical values corresponding to positions on an axis, and typically shown by the
axis labels. On a linear scale the numerical values are proportional to length along the axis; on a
logarithmic scale the logarithms of the values are proportional to length along the axis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="axis_title" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Axis Title</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Text for the axis title, up to 72 characters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="b" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">B</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Estimate of the change in the dependent variable that can be attributed to a change of
one unit in the independent variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="b0" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">B0</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the parameter associated with the intercept.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="b1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">b1</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A parameter in the model equation. Its interpretation will depend on the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="backward_elimination" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Backward Elimination</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A variable selection procedure in which all variables are entered into the equation and
then sequentially removed. The variable with the smallest partial correlation with the dependent
variable is considered first for removal. If it meets the criterion for elimination, it is removed.
After the first variable is removed, the variable remaining in the equation with the smallest
partial correlation is considered next. The procedure stops when there are no variables in the
equation that satisfy the removal criteria.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="backward_elimination_conditional" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Backward Elimination (Conditional)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Backward stepwise selection. Removal testing is based on the probability of the
likelihood-ratio statistic based on conditional parameter estimates.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="backward_elimination_likelihood_ratio" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Backward Elimination (Likelihood Ratio)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Backward stepwise selection. Removal testing is based on the probability of the
likelihood-ratio statistic based on the maximum partial likelihood estimates.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="backward_elimination_wald" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Backward Elimination (Wald)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Backward stepwise selection. Removal testing is based on the probability of the Wald
statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="badness_of_fit" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Badness of Fit</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lower values of badness-of-fit statistics indicate better models.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="bar_chart_s" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Bar Chart(s)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Creates a bar chart that displays the frequency count for each value as a separate bar.
Bar charts are appropriate for categorical variables (variables with a limited number of distinct
categories). Values for which the count is zero do not appear in a bar chart.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gacf06" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Bartlett's Approximation (Autocorrelations)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Calculates standard error with an approximation that is appropriate when the series
represents a moving average process of order k-1. With this method standard errors grow at
increasing lags.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="bartletts_test_of_sphericity" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Bartlett's Test of Sphericity</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Tests the null hypothesis that the correlation matrix is an identity matrix. The data
must be a sample from a multivariate normal population. If the null hypothesis cannot be rejected,
and the sample size is reasonably large, you should reconsider the use of multivariate analysis,
since the dependent variables are not correlated.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="bartlett-box_f" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Bartlett-Box F</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Test that several groups come from populations with the same variance. For sufficiently
large sample sizes, a nonsignificant p value means there is insufficient evidence that the variances
differ. The test depends heavily on the observations being from normal distributions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="bartlett_scores_factor_analysis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Bartlett Scores (Factor Analysis)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A method of estimating factor score coefficients. The scores that are produced have a
mean of 0. The sum of squares of the unique factors over the range of variables is minimized.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gspectra06" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Bartlett Window</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The shape of a spectral window for which the weights of the upper half of the window
are computed as Wk = Fp (2*pi*fk), for k = 0, ... p, where p is the integer part of half the span
and Fp is the Fejer kernel of order p. The lower half is symmetric with the upper half.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="based_on_time_or_case_range" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Based on Time or Case Range</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Selects cases based on a range of case numbers or a range of dates/times.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="baseline_cumulative_hazard" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Baseline cumulative hazard</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the cumulative hazard function at the specified time point independent of
the effects of predictors.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="baseline_strata" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Baseline strata</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A separate baseline hazard and survival function is computed for each value of this
variable, while a single set of model coefficients is estimated across strata.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="bayesian_information_criterion_bic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Bayesian Information Criterion (BIC)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure for selecting and comparing models based on the -2 log likelihood. Smaller
values indicate better models. The BIC also "penalizes" overparameterized models (complex models
with a large number of inputs, for example), but more strictly than the AIC.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry xml:lang="en-us" id="bayesian_information_criterion_bic_1">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Bayesian Information Criterion (BIC)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure for selecting and comparing models based on the -2 reduced log likelihood.
Smaller values indicate better models. The BIC also "penalizes" overparameterized models (complex
models with a large number of inputs, for example), but more strictly than the AIC.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="bca_confidence_interval" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">BCa Confidence Interval</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A bias-corrected and adjusted interval that is considered more accurate but more
computationally expensive than the usual Percentile intervals computed by bootstrapping.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="b_coefficient" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">B Coefficient</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Regression coefficient for a factor specified as having a linear relationship with the
rankings or scores.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="b_column" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">B column</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The set of coefficients estimated for the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="before_effects" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Before Effects</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Enters the covariates before the factor effects are evaluated. Available only if one or
more covariates are in the model and the Hierarchical or Experimental method is used.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="before_transformation_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Before Transformation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Statistics in this category apply to the original variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="bernoulli" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Bernoulli</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The Bernoulli distribution takes values of 0 and 1. A Bernoulli variate takes the value
of 1 with probability equal to the specified probability parameter.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="beta_coefficients" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Beta Coefficients</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Beta coefficients, sometimes called standardized regression coefficients, are the
regression coefficients when all variables are expressed in standardized (z-score) form.
Transforming the independent variables to standardized form makes the coefficients more comparable
since they are all in the same units of measure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="beta_in" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Beta In</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The standardized regression coefficient that would result if the variable were entered
into the equation at the next step.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="between_groups" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Between Groups</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The Mahalanobis distance is calculated for the distance between these two groups.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="between-groups_variability" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Between-Groups Variability</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The part of total variability in the dependent variable that can be accounted for by
differences in group means.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="between_items" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Between Items</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The part of the within-people variability that can be accounted for by differences
between items.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="between_people" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Between People</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The part of total variability in the scale that can be accounted for by differences in
people.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="between-subject_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Between-Subject Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Between-subjects factors divide the sample into discrete subgroups. Each subject has
only one value for a between-subjects variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="bias_bootstrap" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Bias</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The difference between the value of the statistic computed using the bootstrap samples
and the value computed using the original sample.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="bic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">BIC</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure for selecting and comparing mixed models based on the -2 (Restricted) log
likelihood. Smaller values indicate better models. The BIC also penalizes overparametrized models,
but more strictly than the AIC.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="bic_rbf" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">BIC (RBF)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The Bayesian information criterion (BIC) can be used by the procedure to determine the
"best" number of hidden units. The number of units that results in the smallest BIC is considered
"best".</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="bic_change" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">BIC change</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The difference in Schwarz's Bayesian Criterion between the given model and the next
smaller model. Thus, the BIC change for 2 clusters is the difference in the BIC between the model
with 2 clusters and the model with 1 cluster.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="bic_reduced" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">BIC reduced</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is the BIC for the model when the effect is removed from the fitted model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="bimodal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">bimodal</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">If two of a variable's values share the greatest frequency of occurrence, each of them
is a mode. The variable is then said to be bimodal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="bin" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">bin</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number assigned to each bin.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="binomial_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Binomial Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A test of whether a sample comes from a binomial distribution with the specified
probability of success (p).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="bivariate_analysis_-_first_plot_with_each" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Bivariate analysis - first plot with each</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Plots the first variable selected with each of the other variables on the list.
Univariate plots are still produced for each variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="block" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Block</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The model building block for which statistics are shown</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="bloms_probability_plots" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Blom's (Probability Plots)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Calculates the expected normal distribution using the formula (r-3/8) / (n+1/4), where
n is the number of observations and r is the rank, ranging from 1 to n.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="blom_rank_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Blom (Rank Cases)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Creates new ranking variable based on proportion estimates that uses the formula
(r-3/8) / (w+1/4), where w is the sum of the case weights and r is the rank.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="bonferroni_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Bonferroni</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This method adjusts the observed significance level for the fact that multiple
contrasts are being tested.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="bonferroni" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Bonferroni</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Uses t tests to perform pairwise comparisons between group means, but controls overall
error rate by setting the error rate for each test to the experimentwise error rate divided by the
total number of tests. Hence, the observed significance level is adjusted for the fact that multiple
comparisons are being made.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="bonett_price" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Bonett-Price</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Adjusted version of the classical asymptotic Wald interval adding pseudo-observations. 
Maintains nominal coverage levels, but can be conservative. A recommended interval.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="bootstrap_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Bootstrap</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Statistics computed using the bootstrap samples.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="bootstrap" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Bootstrap</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Bootstrap estimates of the standard error are obtained using repeated samples from the
original data set. This is done by sampling with replacement to get samples of the same size as the
original data set.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="bootstrap_estimates" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Bootstrap Estimates</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A method of estimating the standard error of a statistic using repeated samples from
the original data set. This is done by sampling (with replacement) to get many samples of the same
size as the original data set. The nonlinear equation is estimated for each of these samples. The
standard error of each parameter estimate is then calculated as the standard deviation of the
bootstrapped estimates. Parameter values from the original data are used as starting values for each
bootstrap sample. This requires the sequential quadratic programming algorithm.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="both_missing" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Both Missing</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Indicates the number of cases where both of the group codes are missing or out-of-range
and at least one discriminating variable is missing.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="both_parts" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Both Parts</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Statistics are computed for all items.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="both_radio_button" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Both Radio Button</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays both plots and statistics. Box plots, stem-and-leaf plots, and basic
descriptive statistics for each variable are displayed by default.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="boxs_m_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Box's M test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A test for the equality of the group covariance matrices. For sufficiently large
samples, a nonsignificant p value means there is insufficient evidence that the matrices differ. The
test is sensitive to departures from multivariate normality.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="box-ljung_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">box-ljung statistic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Used to test the null hypothesis that observed autocorrelations are from a series with
no autocorrelation at any lag. Also known as the modified Box-Pierce statistic</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="boxplot" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">boxplot</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Boxplots characterize the distribution of a variable, displaying its median and
quartiles. Special symbols identify the position of outliers, if any.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="box_plots" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Box plots</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Summary plot based on the median, quartiles, and extreme values. The box represents the
interquartile range which contains the 50% of values. The whiskers are lines that extend from the
box to the highest and lowest values, excluding outliers. A line across the box indicates the
median.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="bradley-terry-luce_btl" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Bradley-Terry-Luce (BTL) Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Determines the probability as the ratio of a profile's utility to that for all
simulation profiles, averaged across all respondents.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gbrkgrp" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Break Group</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A break group consists of all of the cases that have identical values for the break
variable(s). In summary reports, statistics are displayed for every such group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="break_variables" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Break Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variables used to define aggregate groups. Cases are grouped together based on the
values of the break variables. Each unique combination of break variable values defines a group and
generates one case in the new aggregated file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="breslow" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Breslow</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A test for comparing the equality of survival distributions. Time points are weighted
by the number of cases at risk at each time point.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="breslow-day" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Breslow-Day</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Breslow Day's statistic tests for homogeneity of the common odds ratio.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="browns_linear_trend" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Brown's linear trend</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This model is appropriate for series in which there is a linear trend and no
seasonality. Its smoothing parameters are level and trend, which are assumed to be equal. Brown's
model is therefore a special case of Holt's model. Brown's exponential smoothing is most similar to
an ARIMA model with zero orders of autoregression, two orders of differencing, and two orders of
moving average, with the coefficient for the second order of moving average equal to the square of
one-half of the coefficient for the first order.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="brown-forsythe" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Brown-Forsythe</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The Brown-Forsythe statistic tests for the equality of group means. This statistic is
preferable to the F statistic when the assumption of equal variances does not hold.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="brown_li_jeffreys" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Brown-Li-Jeffreys</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Similar to the Agresti-Caffo interval, but adds half a success and half a failure to each 
group in the Wald formula. </ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="browse" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Browse</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Opens a dialog box for selecting files.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="by_frequency" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">By frequency</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">All plots are produced by frequency, ranging from frequency 0 (the constant or mean
term) to frequency 0.5 (the term for a cycle of two observations).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="by_period" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">By period</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">All plots are produced by period, ranging from 2 (the term for a cycle of two
observations) to a period equal to the number of observations (the constant or mean term). Period is
displayed on a logarithmic scale.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cache_data_locally" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cache data locally</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A data cache is a complete copy of the data file, stored in temporary disk space.
Caching the data file can improve performance.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="caic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CAIC</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure for selecting and comparing mixed models based on the -2 (Restricted) log
likelihood. Smaller values indicate better models. The CAIC "penalizes" overparametrized models more
strictly than the AIC. As the sample size increases, the CAIC converges to the BIC.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="calculate_from_data" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Calculate from Data</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Estimate the natural response rate from the sample data. Your data should contain a
case representing the control level, for which the value of the covariate(s) is 0. Probit estimates
the natural response rate using the proportion of responses for the control level as an initial
value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cancel" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cancel</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cancels any changes made in the dialog box since the last time it was opened, and
closes the dialog box without executing any command.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gcontrol04" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">c and u Charts</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Plots the number or ratio of nonconformities. C charts plot the total number of
nonconformities per subgroup, for a constant sample of items. U charts plot the average
nonconformities per unit within a subgroup, for varying samples of units. Use c or u charts rather
than p or np charts when each unit can have multiple nonconformities.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="canonical" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Canonical</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">For each dimension, the rows are the weighted average of the columns divided by the
matching singular value. Use this method if you want to examine the differences or similarities
between the two variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="canonical_correlation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Canonical Correlation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The canonical correlation for a discriminant function is the square root of the ratio
of the between-groups sum of squares to the total sum of squares. The squared value of the canonical
correlation is the proportion of the total variability explained by differences between groups.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="capability_indices" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Capability Indices</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Measures of the capability of the process. Most of these statistics are based upon the
capability sigma and/or specification limits.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="capability_sigma" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Capability Sigma</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The capability sigma.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="card_number" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Card Number</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Identifier used to number the simulation cases from the plan file. The first simulation
case in the plan file is card 1, the second simulation case is card 2, etc.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="carryover_effect" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">carryover effect</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">In a crossover trial, there is a possibility of treatments having an (unwanted) effect
in the period following the one in which they are administered. One way to deal with carryover
effects is to allow sufficient time between periods, or washout, for the carryover effect to become
negligible. If, however, this is impractical or unethical, you can add the carryover effect to the
model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="case" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Case</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Indicates the case described</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="case_labels" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Case Labels</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Designates a variable to identify points on plots. For each point in a scatterplot you
can use the point selection tool to display the value of the selected case label variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="case_number" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Case Number</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Identifies the number of the case in the data file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="case_number_of_nonmissing_values" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Case Number of Non-Missing Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Case (row) number for first and last nonmissing value for the new variable. If original
variable values at the beginning or end of the file have missing values, then those values may also
be missing for the new variable, depending on the method used.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="case_percentage" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Case Percentage</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The cell count of cases as a percentage of the total.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cases_18" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases, or rows, in the data file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cases_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Produces a casewise cluster analysis. Distances are computed between cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cases_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Codes for actual group, predicted group, posterior probabilities, and discriminant
scores are displayed for each case.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Basic units of analysis for which measurements are taken. For example, each survey
respondent is a case. Cases correspond to records in a database.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cases_19" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Rows or observations in the data file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cases_constant_gt_bpct" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cases Constant > b%</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of cases with the same value exceeds a chosen threshold for these
variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cases_dropped" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cases dropped</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of cases dropped from the analysis due to missing values, non-positive time, or
censored cases before the earliest event</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cases_greater_than_or_equal_to_test_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cases Greater than or Equal to Test Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases with values greater than or equal to the test value. Cases with
values smaller than the test value fall into one group, cases with values greater than or equal to
the test value fall into the other group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cases_less_than_test_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cases Less than Test Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases with values less than the test value. Cases with values smaller
than the test value fall into one group, cases with values greater than or equal to the test value
fall into the other group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cases_missing" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cases missing</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases/objects that have values outside the valid range for one or more
variables. The valid range for a variable is the range 1 through the specified number of
categories.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cases_missing_gt_apct" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cases Missing > a%</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of cases with missing values exceeds a chosen threshold for these
variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cases_used_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cases Used</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the number of cases used in the analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cases_used" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cases Used</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Reports what cases (observations, records) are used in the analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cases_used_in_analysis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cases Used in Analysis</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of nonmissing cases, or objects.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cases_with_duplicate_identifiers" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cases with Duplicate Identifiers</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The list of cases with duplicate identifiers.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cases_with_missing_values_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cases with missing values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of cases with missing values. These cases are excluded from the analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cases_with_non-positive_time" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cases with non-positive time</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of cases with a non-positive value for time. These cases are excluded from the
analysis</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="case_type_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Case type</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Dimension containing case type.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="case_eights" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Case Weights</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the weight variable for the specified case.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="casewise_diagnostics" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Casewise Diagnostics</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Produces casewise diagnostic information for the cases meeting the selection criterion
(outliers outside n standard deviations).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="casewise_diagnostics_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Casewise Diagnostics</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Table displays information about cases that fall outside a specified number of standard
deviations.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="categorical_6" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">categorical</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A variable with a discrete number of values; an ordinal or nominal variable.
Categorical variables are often used as grouping variables or factors.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gmeans03" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Categorical Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variables that have a limited number of distinct values or categories.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="categorical_variables_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Categorical Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variables that take a finite number of values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="categories" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Categories</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Elementary variables having more than two categories. After selecting this option to
create a multiple category set having the same range as the component variable, enter an integer
value for the minimum and maximum values of the range for categories of the multiple category
set.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="categories_containing_one_case_gt_cpct" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Categories Containing One Case > c%</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of categories represented by a single case exceeds a chosen threshold
for these variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gseries02" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Categories for Bar Charts</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Categories are the individual values of a variable represented on the category axis of
a chart. For example, in a simple bar chart there is one bar for each category on the category axis.
In a clustered bar chart, there is one cluster of bars for each category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="categories_for_dimensions" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Categories for Dimensions</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists all categories in the selected dimension in the layer.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="category_16" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Category</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the different categories.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="category" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Category</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists types of formats available.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="category_after_discretization" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Category after Discretization</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Several categories will often be given a single category value for the purposes of the
analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gcategory1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Category Axis</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A category axis on a chart is an axis that displays values individually, without
necessarily arranging them to scale. (A scale axis, in contrast, displays numerical values to
scale.) Bar charts, line charts, and area charts usually have one category axis and at least one
scale axis. Scatterplots and histograms do not have a category axis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="category_centroids_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Category Centroids</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Or "actual" centroid values. By looking at the centroid plots, you can determine
whether ordinal or numerical quantifications are appropriate.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="category_quantifications_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Category quantifications</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Optimal scale values assigned to the categories of a variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="c_coefficient" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">C Coefficient</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Regression coefficient for a factor specified as having a quadratic relationship with
the rankings or scores.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdf.bernoulli_quant_prob" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDF.BERNOULLI(quant, prob)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDF.BERNOULLI(quant, prob). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a value
from the Bernoulli distribution, with the given probability parameter, will be less than or equal to
quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdf.beta_quant_shape1_shape2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDF.BETA(quant, shape1, shape2)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDF.BETA(quant, shape1, shape2). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a
value from the Beta distribution, with the given shape parameters, will be less than quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdf.binom_quant_n_prob" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDF.BINOM(quant, n, prob)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDF.BINOM(quant, n, prob). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that the number
of successes in n trials, with probability prob of success in each, will be less than or equal to
quant. When n is 1, this is the same as CDF.BERNOULLI.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdf.bvnor" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDF.BVNOR</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDF.BVNOR(quant1, quant2, corr). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a
value from the standard bivariate normal distribution, with the given correlation parameter, will be
less than quant1 and quant2.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdf.cauchy_quant_loc_scale" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDF.CAUCHY(quant, loc, scale)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDF.CAUCHY(quant, loc, scale). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a value
from the Cauchy distribution, with the given location and scale parameters, will be less than
quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdf.chisq_quant_df" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDF.CHISQ(quant, df)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDF.CHISQ(quant, df). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a value from the
chi-square distribution, with df degrees of freedom, will be less than quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdf.exp_quant_scale" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDF.EXP(quant, scale)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDF.EXP(quant, scale). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a value from
the exponential distribution, with the given scale parameter, will be less than quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdf.f_quant_df1_df2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDF.F(quant, df1, df2)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDF.F(quant, df1, df2). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a value from
the F distribution, with degrees of freedom df1 and df2, will be less than quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdf.gamma_quant_shape_scale" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDF.GAMMA(quant, shape, scale)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDF.GAMMA(quant, shape, scale). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a
value from the Gamma distribution, with the given shape and scale parameters, will be less than
quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdf.geom_quant_prob" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDF.GEOM(quant, prob)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDF.GEOM(quant, prob). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that the number of
trials to obtain a success, when the probability of success is given by prob, will be less than or
equal to quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdf.halfnrm" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDF.HALFNRM</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDF.HALFNRM(quant, mean, stddev). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a
value from the half normal distribution, with specified mean and standard deviation, will be less
than quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdf.hyper_quant_total_sample_hits" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDF.HYPER(quant, total, sample, hits)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDF.HYPER(quant, total, sample, hits). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that
the number of objects with a specified characteristic, when sample objects are randomly selected
from a universe of size total in which hits have the specified characteristic, will be less than or
equal to quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdf.igauss" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDF.IGAUSS</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDF.IGAUSS(quant, loc, scale). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a value
from the inverse Gaussian distribution, with the given location and scale parameters, will be less
than quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdf.laplace_quant_mean_scale" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDF.LAPLACE(quant, mean, scale)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDF.LAPLACE(quant, mean, scale). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a
value from the Laplace distribution, with the specified mean and scale parameters, will be less than
quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdf.lnormal_quant_a_b" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDF.LNORMAL(quant, a, b)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDF.LNORMAL(quant, a, b). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a value from
the log-normal distribution, with the specified parameters, will be less than quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdf.logistic_quant_mean_scale" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDF.LOGISTIC(quant, mean, scale)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDF.LOGISTIC(quant, mean, scale). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a
value from the logistic distribution, with the specified mean and scale parameters, will be less
than quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdf.negbin_quant_thresh_prob" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDF.NEGBIN(quant, thresh, prob)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDF.NEGBIN(quant, thresh, prob). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that the
number of trials to obtain a success, when the threshold parameter is thresh and the probability of
success is given by prob, will be less than or equal to quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdf.normal_quant_mean_stddev" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDF.NORMAL(quant, mean, stddev)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDF.NORMAL(quant, mean, stddev). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a
value from the normal distribution, with specified mean and standard deviation, will be less than
quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdf.pareto_quant_threshold_shape" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDF.PARETO(quant, threshold, shape)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDF.PARETO(quant, threshold, shape). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a
value from the Pareto distribution, with the specified threshold and shape parameters, will be less
than quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdf.poisson_quant_mean" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDF.POISSON(quant, mean)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDF.POISSON(quant, mean). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a value from
the Poisson distribution, with the specified mean or rate parameter, will be less than or equal to
quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdf.smod" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDF.SMOD</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDF.SMOD(quant, a, b). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a value from
the Studentized maximum modulus, with the specified parameters, will be less than quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdf.srange" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDF.SRANGE</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDF.SRANGE(quant, a, b). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a value from
the Studentized range statistic, with the specified parameters, will be less than quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdf.t_quant_df" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDF.T(quant, df)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDF.T(quant, df). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a value from
Student's t distribution, with the specified degrees of freedom df, will be less than quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdf.uniform_quant_min_max" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDF.UNIFORM(quant, min, max)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDF.UNIFORM(quant, min, max). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a value
from the uniform distribution, with the specified minimum and maximum, will be less than quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdf.weibull_quant_a_b" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDF.WEIBULL(quant, a, b)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDF.WEIBULL(quant, a, b). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a value from
the Weibull distribution, with the specified parameters, will be less than quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cdfnorm_zvalue" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CDFNORM(zvalue)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CDFNORM(zvalue). Numeric. Returns the probability that a random variable with mean 0
and standard deviation 1 would be less than zvalue, which must be numeric.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cell" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">cell</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A cell is the cross-classification of levels from one or more factors. For example, if
you have customer factors for geographic region, marital status, and educational level, then married
college graduates in your northern sales territory constitute a cell.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ganova01" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cell (ANOVA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">In analysis of variance, a cell is formed by every distinct combination of factor
values. All of the cases in each cell have the same values for each factor in the ANOVA. In a
three-factor analysis where one factor has two categories, the second has three, and the third has
five, there are 2x3x5=30 cells.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cells" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cells</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cells defined by the cross-classification of factors.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cells_pushbutton" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cells Pushbutton</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Controls the statistics displayed in the cells of the table. You can display row,
column, and total percentages, expected values, and residuals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cell_structure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cell Structure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the cell structure variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="censored" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Censored</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Subjects that are withdrawn from observation before experiencing the terminal
event.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="censored_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Censored cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of cases with censored time values, where tracking on the case stopped before
the status event occurred</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="censored_cases_before_the_eariliest_event_in_a_stratum" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Censored cases before the earliest event in a stratum</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of cases which were followed for less time than the shortest time to event in
their stratum. These cases are excluded from the analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="censored_percent" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Censored Percent</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of subjects which are censored within a stratum.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="centering" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">centering</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A method of removing the effect of a variable's location from the analysis. This is
accomplished by subtracting its location (most often the mean, but sometimes the median or some
other measure of central tendency) from each of the variable's values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gcontrol05" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Center Line (Control Charts)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A line that represents the average value of the quality characteristic. This line
serves as a baseline against which to examine the process under consideration.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="center_variables" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Center variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Adjusts the series to have a mean of 0 before calculating the spectrum and to remove
the large term that may be associated with the series mean.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="central_tendency" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">central tendency</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An attribute of a distribution concerning where the values of the distribution tend to
"congregate". Measures of central tendency include the mean, median, and mode.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="centroid" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Centroid</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The average variable values for the cases within a cluster.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="centroid_coordinates" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Centroid Coordinates</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The loss, or variance not accounted for by the centroid coordinates.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="centroids" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Centroids</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Category quantifications, and the projected and the actual averages of the object
scores for the objects (cases) included in each set for those cases belonging to the same category
of the variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cfvar_numexpr_numexpr_.." xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CFVAR(numexpr,numexpr[,..])</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CFVAR(numexpr,numexpr[,...]). Numeric. Returns the coefficient of variation (the
standard deviation divided by the mean) of its arguments that have valid values. This function
requires two or more arguments, which must be numeric. You can specify a minimum number of valid
arguments for this function to be evaluated.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="chaid" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CHAID</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Chi-squared Automatic Interaction Detection. At each step, CHAID chooses the
independent (predictor) variable that has the strongest interaction with the dependent variable.
Categories of each predictor are merged if they are not significantly different with respect to the
dependent variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="change" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Change</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Modifies a value in the list.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="change_from_previous_block" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Change from Previous Block</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The change in model fit in the current block relative to the previous block. Used to
evaluate whether the current block improves the model fit sufficiently to justify the added
complexity.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="change_from_previous_step" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Change from Previous Step</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The change in model fit in the current step relative to the previous step. Used to
evaluate whether the current step improves the model fit sufficiently to justify the added
complexity.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="change_in_cluster_centers" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Change in cluster centers</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Indicates the change in the cluster centers at each iteration</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="change_in_v" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Change in V</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">When an additional variable is entered, this value is the change in V. When positive
this change has approximately a chi-square distribution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="change_statistics" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Change Statistics</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Change statistics include R square change, F change, significance F change.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="char.index" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CHAR.INDEX(haystack, needle, divisor)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CHAR.INDEX(haystack, needle[, divisor]). Numeric. Returns a number indicating the
character position of the first occurrence of needle in haystack. The optional third argument,
divisor, is a number of characters used to divide needle into separate strings. Each substring is
used for searching and the function returns the first occurrence of any of the substrings. For
example, CHAR.INDEX(var1, 'abcd') will return the value of the starting position of the complete
string "abcd" in the string variable var1; CHAR.INDEX(var1, 'abcd', 1) will return the value of the
position of the first occurrence of any of the values in the string; and CHAR.INDEX(var1, 'abcd', 2)
will return the value of the first occurrence of either "ab" or "cd". Divisor must be a positive
integer and must divide evenly into the length of needle. Returns 0 if needle does not occur within
haystack.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="char.length" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CHAR.LENGTH(strexpr)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def"> CHAR.LENGTH(strexpr). Numeric. Returns the length of strexpr in characters, with any
trailing blanks removed. </ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="char.lpad" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CHAR.LPAD(strexpr1, length, strexpr2)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CHAR.LPAD(strexpr1,length[,strexpr2]). String. Left-pads strexpr1 to make its length
the value specified by length using as many complete copies as will fit of strexpr2 as the padding
string. The value of length represents the number of characters and must be a positive integer. If
the optional argument strexpr2 is omitted, the value is padded with blank spaces.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="char.mblen" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CHAR.MBLEN(strexpr,pos)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CHAR.MBLEN(strexpr,pos). Numeric. Returns the number of bytes in the character at
character position pos of strexpr.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="char.rindex" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CHAR.RINDEX(haystack,needle,divisor)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CHAR.RINDEX(haystack,needle[,divisor]). Numeric. Returns an integer that indicates the
starting character position of the last occurrence of the string needle in the string haystack. The
optional third argument, divisor, is the number of characters used to divide needle into separate
strings. For example, CHAR.RINDEX(var1, 'abcd') will return the starting position of the last
occurrence of the entire string "abcd" in the variable var1; CHAR.RINDEX(var1, 'abcd', 1) will
return the value of the position of the last occurrence of any of the values in the string; and
CHAR.RINDEX(var1, 'abcd', 2) will return the value of the starting position of the last occurrence
of either "ab" or "cd". Divisor must be a positive integer and must divide evenly into the length of
needle. If needle is not found, the value 0 is returned.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="char.rpad" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CHAR.RPAD(strexpr1,length,strexpr2)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CHAR.RPAD(strexpr1,length[,strexpr2]). String. Right-pads strexpr1 with strexpr2 to
extend it to the length given by length using as many complete copies as will fit of strexpr2 as the
padding string. The value of length represents the number of characters and must be a positive
integer. The optional third argument strexpr2 is a quoted string or an expression that resolves to a
string. If strepxr2 is omitted, the value is padded with blanks.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="char.substr" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CHAR.SUBSTR(strexpr,pos,length)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CHAR.SUBSTR(strexpr,pos[,length]). String. Returns the substring beginning at character
position pos of strexpr. The optional third argument represents the number of characters in the
substring. If the optional argument length is omitted, returns the substring beginning at character
position pos of strexpr and running to the end of strexpr. For example CHAR.SUBSTR('abcd', 2)
returns 'bcd' and CHAR.SUBSTR('abcd', 2, 2) returns 'bc'.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="def_chart" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Chart (output item type)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A chart created either through the Graphics menu or in some statistical procedures. The
user can cut, copy, paste or delete a chart item or change its label text when it is selected. To
export a chart, it is necessary to activate it.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="charts" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Charts</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Requests bar charts and histograms.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="chebychev_distance_measure_distance_and_proximity_measures" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Chebychev Distance Measure (Distance and Proximity Measures)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Dissimilarity measure for continuous data. The distance between two cases is the
maximum absolute difference between the values for the cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="chi-square" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Chi-Square</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Used to label any statistic that has approximately a chi-square distribution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="chi-square_6" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Chi-Square</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">When the chi-square statistic is large, and the p-value is small (say less than 0.10),
the null hypothesis can be rejected.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="chi-square_crosstabs" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Chi-Square (Crosstabs)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Tests the hypothesis that the row and column variables are independent, without
indicating strength or direction of the relationship. Pearson chi-square, likelihood-ratio
chi-square, and linear-by-linear association chi-square are displayed. Fisher's exact test and
Yates' corrected chi-square are computed for 2x2 tables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="chi-square_crosstabs_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Chi-Square (Crosstabs)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Statistic used to test the hypothesis that the row and column variables are
independent. This should not be used if any cell has an expected value less than 1, or if more than
20% of the cells have expected values less than 5. For general purposes, the significance value is
more important than the actual value of the statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="chi-square_distance_measure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Chi-Square Distance Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A dissimilarity measure for frequency count data based on the chi-square statistic. The
magnitude of this measure depends on the total frequencies of the two cases or variables whose
distance is computed. Expected values are from the model of independence of cases or variables. The
value produced by this measure is the square root of the chi-square statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="chi-square_goodness-of-fit_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Chi-Square Goodness-of-Fit Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A test of how well a model fits the observed data. Small observed significance levels
(say less than 0.10) indicate that the model does not fit well.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cholesky_manova" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cholesky (MANOVA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A method used to decompose the design matrix. Sometimes less accurate than the QR
method.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ci_for_exp_b" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CI for Exp(B)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A range of values which N% of the time includes the value of e (2.718) raised to the
parameter value. To change the default value, enter a number between 1 and 99 (common values are 90,
95, and 99). If the population value of the parameter is 0, the confidence limits of Exp(B) should
include the value 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="city-block_distance_measure_distance_and_proximity_measures" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">City-Block Distance Measure (Distance and Proximity Measures)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Dissimilarity measure for continuous data. The distance between two items is the sum of
the absolute differences in values for each variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="classification_plots" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Classification Plots</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Histogram of the actual and predicted values of the dependent variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="classification_results" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Classification Results</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases correctly and incorrectly assigned to each of the groups based on
the discriminant analysis. Sometimes called the "Confusion Matrix."</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="classify" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Classify</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to control the computation of prior probabilities, to obtain summary
classification output, and to control the classification of cases with missing values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="clementine_information" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Clementine Information</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Indicates whether or not the data file contains Clementine information.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="clopper_pearson" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Clopper-Pearson ("Exact")</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Uses exact binomial probabilities to guarantee coverage levels, but is generally 
conservative due to discreteness of binomial distributions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="close" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Close</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Saves defined multiple response sets and closes the dialog box.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cluster" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cluster</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A cluster is a group of cases that are similar to each other in terms of the variables
in the analysis</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cluster_10" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cluster</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cluster variables define groups of observational units. These are useful when directly
sampling observational units from the population is expensive or impossible; instead you can sample
clusters from the population and then sample observational units from the selected clusters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cluster_9" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cluster</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Refers to any of the procedure-defined groupings of cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cluster_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cluster 1</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">One of the cluster joined to form a new cluster. The label of this cluster is assigned
to the newly formed cluster.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cluster_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cluster 2</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">One of the clusters joined to form a new cluster.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cluster_combined" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cluster combined</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Indicates the clusters that are combined at each stage.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="clustered_bar_chart" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Clustered Bar Chart</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Contains a group of bars for each category on the category axis. Bars within each
cluster can represent groups of cases, separate variables, or individual cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="clustered_box_plot" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Clustered Box plot</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Contains a cluster of box plots for each category or variable on the category axis. The
box plots within each cluster are defined by a separate definition variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="clustered_error_bar" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Clustered Error Bar</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Contains a cluster of error bars for each category or variable on the category axis.
The bars within each cluster are defined by a cluster definition variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="clustered_high-low-close_chart" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Clustered High-Low-Close Chart</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays two or three values for a sequence of categories. There is a cluster of
high-low-close bars for each category, variable or case on the category axis. The classical use of
these is to display daily or weekly high, low, and closing prices of commodities or securities.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="clustered_range_bar_chart" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Clustered Range Bar Chart</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays bars that "float" to show the range between high and low values. There is a
cluster of bars for each category or case on the category axis. The high and low values are defined
by pairs of summary variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cluster_information_for_each_case" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cluster Information for Each Case</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays for each case the final cluster assignment and the Euclidean distance between
the case and the cluster center used to classify the case. Also displays Euclidean distance between
final cluster centers.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cluster_membership_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cluster membership</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cluster membership for the solution with the specified number of clusters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="coc" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">COC</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Concentration Index. The coefficient of concentration measures the percentage of ratios
that fall within an interval. It can be computed either explicitly by defining the low and high
values of the interval, or implicitly by specifying the percentage of the median.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cochrans_and_mantel-haenszel_statistics" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cochran's and Mantel-Haenszel statistics</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cochran's and Mantel-Haenszel statistics can be used to test for independence between a
dichotomous factor variable and a dichotomous response variable, conditional upon covariate patterns
defined by one or more layer (control) variables. Note that while other statistics are computed
layer by layer, the Cochran's and Mantel-Haenszel statistics are computed once for all layers.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cochrans_c" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cochran's C</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Test that groups come from populations with the same variance. It is based on the ratio
of the largest group variance to the sum of all the group variances. For sufficiently large sample
sizes, a nonsignificant p value means there is insufficient evidence that the variances differ. The
test is sensitive to departures from normality.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cochrans_q" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cochran's Q</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A nonparametric test of the hypothesis that several related dichotomous variables have
the same mean. The variables are measured on the same individual or on matched individuals. This is
an extension of the McNemar test to the k-sample situation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cochrans_q_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cochran's Q</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cochran's Q is used to test the hypothesis that the items do not account for a
significant portion of the within-person variability.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cochrans_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cochran's statistic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cochran's statistic tests independence between a dichotomous factor variable and a
dichotomous response variable, conditional upon covariate patterns defined by one or more
"stratifying" variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cochran_chi-square" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cochran Chi-Square</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays Cochran's Q. This option is appropriate for data that are dichotomous. The Q
statistic replaces the usual F statistic in the ANOVA table.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cochrane-orcutt_method" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cochrane-Orcutt</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A simple and widely used estimation procedure for estimating a regression equation
whose errors follow a first-order autoregressive process. It cannot be used when a series contains
embedded missing values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cod" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">COD</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Coefficient of Dispersion. The result of expressing the average absolute deviation as a
percentage of the median.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="coefficient_iteration_history" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Coefficient (iteration history)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Shows the values of the coefficients for each iteration. This can be useful for
identifying problems with your predictors if the procedure fails to find a solution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="coefficient_correlations" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Coefficient Correlations</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Table displays correlations and covariances for each model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="coefficient_of_variation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Coefficient of Variation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The ratio of the standard deviation to the mean.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="coefficient_of_variation_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Coefficient of Variation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The ratio of the standard error to the estimate.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="coefficient_of_variation_lt_e" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Coefficient Of Variation &lt; e</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The absolute value of the coefficient of variation (the standard deviation divided by
the mean) falls below a chosen threshold.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="coefficients_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Coefficients</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Table displays information about regression coefficients.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="coefficients" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Coefficients</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Enter a numeric coefficient value for each group (category) of the Factor variable and
click Add. You can Change or Remove a coefficient after adding it to the list by selecting it and
clicking the appropriate button. The number of coefficients must equal the number of groups or the
analysis will not be performed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="coefficients_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Coefficients</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Index of the distance between the two clusters joined.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="coefficients_list_box" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Coefficients List Box</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the values of the coefficients for the levels of the factor variable. Values are
added to the bottom of the coefficient list.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="coefficient_total" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Coefficient Total</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The sum of the coefficients which should sum to 0; if they do not, a warning message is
displayed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="collinearity_pivot_table_regression" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Collinearity (Pivot Table Regression)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Collinearity (or multicollinearity) is the undesirable situation where the correlations
among the independent variables are strong.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="collinearity_diagnostics" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Collinearity Diagnostics</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the tolerances for individual variables and a variety of statistics for
diagnosing collinearity problems. Collinearity (or multicollinearity) is the undesirable situation
when one independent variable is a linear function of other independent variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="collinearity_diagnostics_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Collinearity Diagnostics</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Table displays information about intercorrelations among the independent
variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="column_15" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Column</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Dimension containing the category numbers or category value labels of the column
variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="column_s_variable_list" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Column(s) Variable List</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Selected variables are displayed in columns in the crosstabulation. Selected variables
should be categorical (variables with a limited number of distinct values). A crosstabulation is
produced for each combination of row and column variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="column_objects" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Column objects</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The column objects are represented by variables, or columns, in the dataset.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="column_percentage_crosstabsdivtables" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Column Percentage (Crosstabs/Tables)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of all the cases in a column that fall into a particular cell.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="columns" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Columns</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variables on this list are displayed as columns.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="column_width_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Column Width</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Data Editor display column width.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="combined" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Combined</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the results for the between-groups variability, combining all components.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="combined_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Combined</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The statistics computed for all cases from all clusters, including the outliers.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="combined-groups_plots" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Combined-Groups Plots</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Creates an all-groups scatterplot of the first two discriminant function values. If
there is only one function, a histogram is displayed instead.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="comma_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Comma Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Defines a numeric variable whose values are displayed with commas delimiting every
three places, and with the period as a decimal delimiter. The Data Editor accepts numeric values for
comma variables with or without commas; or in scientific notation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="common_inter-item_correlation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Common Inter-Item Correlation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The common off-diagonal term of the inter-item correlation matrix.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="common_space_dimension" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Common Space Dimension</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The dimensions of the common space.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="common_variance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">common variance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The total variance of a scale. Common variance = true variance + error variance.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="communality" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Communality (Factor Analysis)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The proportion of the total variance of a variable accounted for by the common factors
in a factor analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="component" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Component</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The variance of a random effect.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="component_5" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Component</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Each component is a linear combination of the observed variables which serves to
summarize them.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="compound_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Compound Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Model whose equation is Y = b0 * (b1**t) or ln(Y) = ln(b0) + (ln(b1) * t).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="compound_symmetry" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Compound Symmetry</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This structure has constant variance and constant covariance.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="compressed" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Compressed</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Indicates whether or not the data file is compressed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="compute_from_group_sizes" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Compute From Group Sizes</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Prior probabilities are based on the sample proportion of cases in each group (after
cases with missing values for any predictor are deleted).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="concat_strexpr_strexpr_.." xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CONCAT(strexpr,strexpr[,..])</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CONCAT(strexpr,strexpr[,..]). String. Returns a string that is the concatenation of all
its arguments, which must evaluate to strings. This function requires two or more arguments. In code
page mode, if strexpr is a string variable, use RTRIM if you only want the actual string value
without the right-padding to the defined variable width. For example, CONCAT(RTRIM(stringvar1),
RTRIM(stringvar2)).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="concentration" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Concentration</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of dispersion that uses p-squared as the basic measure of error, where p is
the probability an observation falls in a given cell.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="condition" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Condition</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The condition specifies the range of proximities that are compared within a
transformation. They can be row conditional (proximities are compared within rows), matrix
conditional (proximities are compared within sources), or unconditional (all proximities compared
with each other).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="conditional_least_squares" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Conditional least squares</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The forecasts are conditional least squares forecasts. They are also called infinite
memory forecasts</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="condition_index" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Condition Index</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The square roots of the ratios of the largest eigenvalue to each successive eigenvalue.
A condition index greater than 15 indicates a possible problem and an index greater than 30 suggests
a serious problem with collinearity.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="confidence_interval_5" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Confidence interval</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A range of values based on the difference between the sample means. If the interval
does not contain 0, the sample means differ significantly.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="confidence_interval_8" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Confidence interval</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A range of values that has an n% chance of including the population value of the
parameter estimate, where n is the specified percentage value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="confidence_interval_9" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Confidence interval</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A range of values that has a N% chance of including the population value of the
parameter estimate.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="confidence_interval" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Confidence interval</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A range of values has an N% chance of including the population value of the parameter
estimate. You can change the level of the confidence interval. Typical confidence levels are 90, 95,
and 99.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="confidence_interval_entry_text" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Confidence interval entry text</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Enter a value between 1 and 99.99 to specify the confidence level for the two
Prediction Intervals. Mean or Individual must be selected before entering this value. Typical
confidence interval values are 90, 95, and 99.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gerrorbar01" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Confidence interval for mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A range of values, based on the sample mean, that, with a designated likelihood,
include the population mean.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="confidence_interval_for_mean" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Confidence interval for mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Enter a percentage between 1 and 99 to specify the likelihood that the confidence
interval, a range of values based on the sample mean, includes the population mean. Higher values
will give more conservative intervals (commonly chosen values are 90, 95 or 99). Descriptives must
be selected to obtain a confidence interval.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="confidence_interval_of_b" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Confidence interval of B</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A range of values that has a 95% chance of including the population value of the
regression coefficient.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="confidence_interval_of_the_paired_difference" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Confidence Interval of the Paired Difference</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A range of values based on the paired difference. If the interval does not contain 0,
the paired difference differs significantly from 0.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="confidence_interval_7" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Confidence intervals</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays confidence limits for the forecast. As long as the process remains the same,
you should expect N% of the series to remain between the upper and lower confidence limits. Choose a
level from the drop-down list.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="confidence_intervals" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Confidence intervals</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The 95% confidence intervals for the regression coefficients.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="confidence_level" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Confidence Level</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The probability that, in the long run, a specified interval around the value of a
statistic estimated from a sample actually includes the value that would be calculated from the
whole population (if that were possible).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="confidence_singular_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Confidence singular value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Measure of the stability of the singular value for each dimension.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="consistent_aic_caic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Consistent AIC (CAIC)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure for selecting and comparing models based on the -2 log likelihood. Smaller
values indicate better models. The CAIC "penalizes" overparametrized models more strictly than the
AIC. As the sample size increases, the CAIC converges to the BIC.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="constant" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Constant</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the dependent variable when the independent variables are all zero.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="constant_6" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Constant</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The constant term added to the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="constant_7" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Constant</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies the details of any constant term included in the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="constant_covariate" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Constant Covariate</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A covariate whose value does not change during the experiment. For example, a person's
height would be a constant covariate.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="constant_term" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Constant Term</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">In a linear model, the term which represents the average response.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="constrained_matrix" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Constrained Matrix</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">In the strict parallel model, the inter-item covariance matrix is constrained to have a
single diagonal value and a single off-diagonal value. In the parallel model, the covariance matrix
has a single off-diagonal covariance value and potentially different diagonal elements.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="contain" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Contain</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">For any two effects F1 and F2 in the model, F1 is said to be "contained" in F2 if (1)
Both effects F1 and F2 have the same covariate, if any. (2) F2 consists of more factors than F1.(3)
All factors in F1 also appear in F2. The intercept effect is treated as contained in all the pure
factor effects. However, it is not contained in any effect involving a covariate. Also, no effect is
contained in the intercept effect. Thus, for any one effect F of interest, all other effects in the
model may be classified as in one of the following two groups: the effects which do not contain F or
the effects which contain F.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="contingency_coefficient" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Contingency Coefficient</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of association based on chi-square. The value ranges between 0 and 1, with 0
indicating no association between the row and column variables and values close to 1 indicating a
high degree of association between the variables. The maximum value possible depends on the number
of rows and columns in a table.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="continue" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Continue</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Saves selections and closes the dialog box.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="continuousvariables" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Continuous Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variables selected as continuous. They should take values over an interval.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="contrast_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Contrast</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A linear combination of parameters in the model used in comparing the levels of the
effect of interest.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="contrast" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Contrast</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A linear combination of means. For example, the contrast 0.5 * ( Mean 1) + 0.5 * (Mean
2) - 1 * (Mean 3) can be used to test the hypothesis that the average of the first two means equals
the third mean in the population. For most applications, the coefficients should sum to 0. Sets of
coefficients that do not sum to 0 produce a warning message.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="contrast_5" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Contrast</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The type of contrast.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="contrast_anova" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Contrast</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The calculation of the effect size for the contrast test.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="contrast_coefficients_l_matrix" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Contrast Coefficients L Matrix</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Method of computing the coefficients in the L matrix.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="contrast_estimate_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Contrast Estimate</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The product of the contrast coefficients matrix and the coefficients estimates matrix;
the LB side of the LB=K equation for testing hypotheses.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="contrast_estimate" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Contrast Estimate</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An estimate of a linear combination of cell means.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="contrast_minus_tests" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Contrast minus Tests</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the contrast minus the test value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="contrast_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Contrast Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Tests the null hypothesis formulated by the user-specified contrast.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="contrasts" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Contrasts</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to partition the between-groups sum of squares into trend components or to
specify a priori contrasts to be tested by the t statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gcontrastvars" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Contrast Variables (Regression)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A categorical variable can be used in a regression equation by replacing it with a set
of dichotomous variables which, as a group, are equivalent to the categorical variable. The simplest
way to do this, conceptually, is to use an indicator or "dummy" variable for each category except
one. Other coding schemes are possible, but the number of dichotomies is always one less than the
number of categories in the original variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="contribution" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Contribution</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Proportion of inertia.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="contributions" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Contributions</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The contribution of each row and column to the inertia of each dimension, and the
proportion of distance to the origin accounted for in each dimension.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="control_group_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Control Group</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cases that have been specified as "control groups" for use in computing the natural
response rate.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="control_group" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Control Group</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The group used for comparison with the experimental group to see if the groups are
effected in the same way. The control group was defined by the group 1 value in the Define Groups
dialog box.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gcontrol06" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Control Limits (Control Charts)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The upper and lower control limits set boundaries on the process. If the process is in
control, most points in a sample should fall within these limits. Points falling outside of the
control limits may indicate that a process is out of control. Upper and lower control limits can
either be calculated from the data, or explicitly specified.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="controlling_for" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Controlling For</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">List the numeric control variables. This list must contain at least one variable to run
this procedure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="control_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Control Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variables whose effects are removed from the correlations between the other
(non-control) variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="convergence_criterion_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Convergence Criterion</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value used to determine whether the estimation algorithm has converged. By default
its value is 0.001 times the largest cell size, or 0.25, whichever is larger.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="convergence_criterion" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Convergence Criterion</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">By default, iterations terminate if the largest change in any cluster center is less
than 2% of the minimum distance between initial centers (or if the maximum number of iterations has
been reached). To override the convergence value, enter a positive number less than or equal to
1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="convergence_tolerance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Convergence tolerance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The algorithm stops if the change in expected frequency is less than this value for all
cells.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="convert_numeric_strings_to_numbers" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Convert Numeric Strings to Numbers</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Converts string values containing numbers to numeric values. Strings containing
anything other than numbers and an optional sign (+ or -) are assigned the system-missing
value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cooks" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cook's</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The logistic regression analog of Cook's influence statistic. A measure of how much the
residuals of all cases would change if a particular case were excluded from the calculation of the
regression coefficients.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cooks_distance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cook's Distance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of how much the residuals of all cases would change if a particular case were
excluded from the calculation of the regression coefficients. A large Cook's D indicates that
excluding a case from computation of the regression statistics changes the coefficients
substantially.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="copy_old_values" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Copy Old Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Retains the old value. If some values don't require recoding, use this to include the
old values. Any old values that are not specified are not included in the new variable, and cases
with those values will be assigned the system-missing value for the new variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="corr_1_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Corr(^1,^2)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A correlation term for the Unstructured Correlations covariance structure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="correlated_item-total_correlation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Corrected Item-Total Correlation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure for examining the relationship between individual items and the total scale,
this is the correlation between the given item and the item sum if the given item is not included in
the scale. Smaller values indicate the given item is not well correlated with the others.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="corrected_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Corrected Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The variation in the dependent variable by other effects (except the intercept) in the
model after corrected for the mean.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="corrected_quasi_likelihood_under_independence_model_criterion_qicc" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Corrected Quasi Likelihood under Independence Model Criterion (QICC)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure for choosing between two sets of model terms, given a correlation structure.
Smaller values indicate better models.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="corrected_total" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Corrected Total</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The total variation in the dependent variable, corrected for the mean.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="corrected_total_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Corrected Total</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Statistics related to the variation in the dependent variable about its mean
value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="correlation_7" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">correlation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Two variables are correlated if a change in the value of one signifies a change in the
other. The most common measure of correlation is the Pearson correlation, which measures the degree
to which the relationship between two variables can be described by a straight line.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="correlation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Correlation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An estimate of the correlation between the singular values for each pair of dimensions.
This measure indicates the stability of the singular value between dimensions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="correlation_marginal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Correlation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The correlation between matched pairs for marginal counts or proportions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="correlation_between_forms" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Correlation between forms</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The correlation between the sums of the items in each group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="correlation_coefficients_factor_analysis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Correlation Coefficients (Factor Analysis)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Correlation matrix for the variables specified for the factor analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="correlation_compound_symmetry" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Correlation Compound Symmetry</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This covariance structure has homogenous variances and homogenous correlations between
elements.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="correlation_matrix" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Correlation Matrix</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The standardized form of the residual covariance matrix.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="correlation_of_estimates" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Correlation of Estimates</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the correlation matrix of regression coefficients.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="correlations_crosstabs" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Correlations (Crosstabs)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The Pearson correlation coefficient r, a measure of linear association between two
variables, and the Spearman correlation coefficient, a measure of association between rank orders.
Values of both range between -1 (a perfect negative relationship) and +1 (a perfect positive
relationship). A value of 0 indicates no linear relationship.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="correlations_summaries" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Correlations Summaries</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Summary statistics for inter-item correlations. The smallest, largest, and average
inter-item correlations, the range and variance of inter-item correlations, and the ratio of the
largest to the smallest inter-item correlations are displayed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cos_radians" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">COS(radians)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">COS(radians). Numeric. Returns the cosine of radians, which must be a numeric value,
measured in radians.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cosine_similarity_measure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cosine Similarity Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A pattern similarity measure for continuous data. Measures the cosine of the angle
between two vectors of values. The cosine ranges from -1 to +1, with a value of 0 indicating
orthogonal vectors.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cospectral_density" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cospectral density</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The real part of the cross-periodogram, which is a measure of the correlation of the
in-phase frequency components of two time series.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="count_6" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Count</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Frequency or cell frequency.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="count" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Count</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases in a group. Cases are counted only if they have valid (nonmissing)
values for the dependent (summary) variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="count_10" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Count</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of responses that fall in each cell of the crosstabulation table.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="count_col_pct_tables_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Count Col % (Tables Statistic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of all the cases in the column that are in the cell. Available for
grouping variables and their totals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="count_layer_pct_tables_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Count Layer % (Tables Statistic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of all the cases in the layer that are in the cell. Available for
grouping variables and their totals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="count_percentage" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Count Percentage</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The cell count as a percentage of the total.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="count_row_pct_tables_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Count Row % (Tables Statistic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of all the cases in the row that are in the cell. Available for grouping
variables and their totals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="count_subtable_pct_tables_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Count Subtable % (Tables Statistic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of all the cases in the smallest subtable containing the cell that are
actually in the cell. Available for grouping variables and their totals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="count_table_pct_tables_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Count Table % (Tables Statistic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of all the cases in the table that are in the cell. Available for
grouping variables and their totals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cov" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">COV</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Coefficient of Variation. The result of expressing a measure of variation as a
percentage of a measure of location.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="covariance_6" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">covariance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of the linear association between two variables. It is equal to the product
of the correlation between the those two variables and the standard deviations of those two
variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="covariance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Covariance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An unstandardized measure of association between two variables, equal to the
cross-product deviation divided by N-1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="covariance_matrix_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Covariance Matrix</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The residual covariance matrix is the residual SSCP matrix divided by the degrees of
freedom of the residual.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="covariance_matrix" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Covariance Matrix</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays covariance and correlation matrices. The variance-covariance matrix of
regression coefficients displays the variances on the diagonal, and covariances above and
below.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="covariance_parameters" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Covariance Parameters</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The parameters that define the covariance matrices for the repeated measures and random
effects.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="covariance_ratio" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Covariance Ratio</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The ratio of the determinant of the covariance matrix with a particular case excluded
from the calculation of the regression coefficients to the determinant of the covariance matrix with
all cases included. If the ratio is close to 1, the case does not significantly alter the covariance
matrix.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="covariances" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Covariances</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An unstandardized measure of association between two variables. The variances appear on
the diagonal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="covariances_summaries" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Covariances Summaries</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Summary statistics for inter-item covariances. The smallest, largest, and average
inter-item covariances, the range and variance of inter-item covariances, and the ratio of the
largest to the smallest inter-item covariances are displayed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="covariate" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Covariate</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A quantitative or independent variable that is correlated with the dependent variable
and thus is a source of variation in the dependent variable that has not been controlled for in the
experiment. For example, in an experiment on reading comprehension the covariate might be the
subject's IQ. An analysis of covariance removes the variability in the dependent variable due to the
covariate.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="covariate_10" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Covariate</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A scale variable that has been added to a model. In a predictive model, changes in the
value of a covariate should be associated with changes in the value of the target (dependent)
variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="covariate_s" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Covariate(s)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variables measured in addition to the dependent variable in analysis of variance. These
continuous explanatory variables represent a source of variation in the dependent variable that has
not been controlled in the experiment.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="covariate_coefficients" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Covariate Coefficients</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Requests regression coefficients for the covariates. Available only if the model
contains at least one covariate.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="covpar_estimate" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Covpar Estimate</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Parameter estimate associated with a covariance matrix.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="covpar_standard_error" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Covpar Standard Error</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Standard error of a parameter estimate associated with a covariance matrix.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cox_and_snell_r_square" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cox &amp; Snell R square</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The Cox &amp; Snell R-square is a generalized coefficient of determination, used to
estimate the proportion of variance in the dependent variable which is explained by the predictor
(independent) variables. The Cox &amp; Snell R-square is based on the log likelihood for the model
compared to the log likelihood for a baseline model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cp" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CP</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The capability of the process, which is the ratio of the difference between the upper
specification limit and the lower specification limit to six times the estimated capability
sigma.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cpk" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CpK</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Capability of process related to both dispersion and centeredness. It is the minimum of
CpU and CpL.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cpl" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CpL</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The ratio of the difference between the process mean and the lower specification limit
to the capability sigma.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cpm" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CpM</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An index relating the capability sigma and the difference between the process mean and
the target value. You must specify a target specification limit to obtain this statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cpu" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CpU</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The ratio of the difference between the process mean and the upper specification limit
to the capability sigma.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cr" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CR</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The reciprocal of the capability of the process.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cramers_v" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cramer's V</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of association based on chi-square. The value ranges between zero and 1, with
zero indicating no association between the row and column variables and values close to 1 indicating
a high degree of association between the variables. A measure of association based on chi-square.
Cramer's V can attain a value of 1 for tables of any dimension.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="create_a_new_data_file" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Create a New Data File</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Saves aggregated data to an external data file. The file includes the break variables
that define the aggregated cases and all aggregate variables defined by aggregate functions. The
active dataset is unaffected.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="create_a_new_dataset_aggregate" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Create a New Dataset (Aggregate)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Saves aggregated data to a new dataset in the current session. The dataset includes the
break variables that define the aggregated cases and all aggregate variables defined by aggregate
functions. The active dataset is unaffected.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<!--Commented out because it doesn't appear to be used anywhere
and caused some translation confusion
<glossentry id="creating_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm> <term id="term">Creating Function</term> </glossterm>
<glossdef> <ph id="def">Method used to calculate the new values. The
source variable name and span of values used in the calculation (if
any) are indicated in parentheses.</ph> </glossdef></glossentry>-->
<glossentry id="cronbachs_alpha" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cronbach's Alpha</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cronbach's Alpha is a measure of reliability that is used here as an indicator of model
fit. Larger values of alpha indicate better models.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cronbachs_alpha_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cronbach's Alpha</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cronbach's Alpha is a measure of reliability that is a lower bound for the true
reliability of the survey. The computation of Cronbach's alpha is based on the number of items on
the survey and the ratio of the average inter-item covariance to the average item variance.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cronbachs_alpha_based_on_standardized_items" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cronbach's Alpha Based on Standardized Items</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cronbach's Alpha computed under the assumption that the item variances are all equal.
Also known as the Spearman-Brown stepped-up reliability coefficient.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cronbachs_alpha_if_item_deleted" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cronbach's Alpha if Item Deleted</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure for examining the relationship between individual items and the total scale,
this is the value of Cronbach's Alpha for the remaining items if the given item is not included in
the scale.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cross_amplitude" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cross amplitude</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The square root of the sum of the squared cospectral density and the squared quadrature
spectrum.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gcrosscorr" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cross-Correlations</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A correlation between two time series. The observations of one series are correlated
with the observations of another series at various lags and leads. Cross-correlations are often
presented in a plot. Cross-correlations help identify variables which are leading indicators of
other variables. CCF is a procedure that produces cross-correlations.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="crossover_trial" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">crossover trial</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is a study in which each subject is observed for multiple periods and receives a
different level of treatment at each period. The advantages of such a study are an economy of time
and subjects and that "within-patient" comparisons of treatments are possible. A potential problem
with this design is the possibility of carryover effects.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cross-product_deviations_correlations" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cross-Product Deviations (Correlations)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The cross-product deviation is equal to the sum of the products of mean-corrected
variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cross-product_deviations_and_covariances" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cross-Product Deviations and Covariances</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the cross-product deviations and covariances for each pair of variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="crosstabulation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Crosstabulation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A table displaying the number of cases falling into each combination of the categories
of two or more categorical variables. In addition to counts, the table may display percentages,
expected values, and residuals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cross-validated" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cross-Validated</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays results for the cross-validated cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cross-variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cross-variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cross-variable rules are user-defined rules that can be applied to a single variable or
a combination of variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="crt" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CRT</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Classification and Regression Trees. CRT splits the data into segments that are as
homogeneous as possible with respect to the dependent variable. A terminal node in which all cases
have the same value for the dependent variable is a homogeneous, "pure" node.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cs_covariance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CS: covariance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This parameter defines the off-diagonal elements of a Compound Symmetry covariance
matrix.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cs_diagonal_offset" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CS: diagonal offset</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This parameter, plus the covariance parameter, defines the diagonal elements of a
Compound Symmetry covariance matrix.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="csglm_cslogistic_test_statistics" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CSGLM, CSLOGISTIC test statistics</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">One of the statistics available for hypothesis testing in the Complex Samples modeling
procedures.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="csh_rho" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CSH rho</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The correlation term for the Heterogeneous Compound Symmetry covariance structure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="csr_diagonal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CSR diagonal</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A variance term for the Compound Symmetry with correlation parameterization covariance
structure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="csr_rho" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CSR rho</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The correlation term for the Compound Symmetry with correlation parameterization
covariance structure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ctime.days_timevalue" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CTIME.DAYS(timevalue)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CTIME.DAYS(timevalue). Numeric. Returns the number of days, including fractional days,
in timevalue, which is a number of seconds, a time expression, or a time format variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ctime.hours_timevalue" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CTIME.HOURS(timevalue)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CTIME.HOURS(timevalue). Numeric. Returns the number of hours, including fractional
hours, in timevalue, which is a number of seconds, a time expression, or a time format
variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ctime.minutes_timevalue" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CTIME.MINUTES(timevalue)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CTIME.MINUTES(timevalue). Numeric. Returns the number of minutes, including fractional
minutes, in timevalue, which is a number of seconds, a time expression, or a time format
variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ctime.seconds_timevalue" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CTIME.SECONDS(timevalue)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">CTIME.SECONDS(timevalue). Numeric. Returns the number of seconds, including fractional
seconds, in timevalue, which is a number, a time expression, or a time format variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cubic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cubic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Tests the cubic effects across all levels.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cubic_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cubic Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Model that is defined by the equation Y = b0 + (b1 * t) + (b2 * t**2) + (b3 *
t**3).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cubic_regression_scatterplot_options" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cubic Regression (Scatterplot Options)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A least squares regression curve, including squared and cubed terms, that best fits the
data points on the scatterplot.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cubic_term" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cubic Term</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the results of the 3rd-degree polynomial term. A 3rd-degree polynomial term is
the term with a variable raised to the 3rd power.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cumulative_12" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cumulative</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The cumulative estimate through each value of the variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cumulative" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cumulative</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The proportion of inertia accounted for cumulated over the dimensions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cumulative_generic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cumulative (generic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Results displayed are cumulative results for all categories up to and including each
category, based on sort order.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cumulative_pct" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cumulative %</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of the total dispersion accounted for by the canonical variables (or
canonical discriminant functions).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cumulative_pct_of_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cumulative % of Cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value graphed represents the cumulative number of cases as a percentage of the
total number of cases. Cumulative summary functions should not be used in pie charts, or in stacked
bar and area charts that have been transposed so that the cumulative function is along the scale
axis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cumulative_distribution_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">cumulative distribution function</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A cumulative distribution function (CDF) returns the probability that a variate of a
given distribution falls below a given value for continuous functions and at or below a given value
for discrete functions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cumulative_events_k-m" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cumulative Events</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cumulative frequency of events when cases are sorted by their survival times and status
codes. The default variable name is the prefix cum_ with a sequential number appended to it. For
example, if cum_1 already exists, Kaplan-Meier assigns the variable name cum_2.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cumulative_frequency" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cumulative Frequency</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases in the current category or any lower category</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cumulative_hazard" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cumulative Hazard</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The estimated cumulative hazard function. The value indicates the probability of
observing the event at or before the specified time, given the values of the predictors.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cumulative_n_of_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cumulative N of Cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value graphed represents the number of cases in the current category plus all cases
in previous categories. Cumulative summary functions should not be used for pie charts, or for
stacked bar and area charts that have been transposed so that the cumulative function is along the
scale axes.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cumulative_odds_ratio" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cumulative Odds Ratio</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cumulative odds are defined as the ratio of the probability that the dependent variable
takes a value less than or equal to a given response category to the probability that it takes a
value greater than that response category. The cumulative odds ratio is the ratio of cumulative odds
for different predictor values, and is closely related to the exponentiated parameter estimates.
Interestingly, the cumulative odds ratio itself does not depend upon the response category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cumulative_percent" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cumulative Percent</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of cases with nonmissing data that have values less than or equal to a
particular value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cumulative_percentage" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cumulative Percentage</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of cases in the current category or any lower category</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cumulative_proportion_prefscal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cumulative proportion (prefscal)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The proportion of the total inertia explained by the dimension and all lower
dimensions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gcumprop" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cumulative Proportions</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The proportion of the distribution that is less than the specified value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cumulative_proportion_surviving_at_end_of_interval" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cumulative Proportion Surviving at End of Interval</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The proportion of cases surviving from the start of the table to the end of the
interval.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cumulative_proportion_surviving_at_the_time" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cumulative Proportion Surviving at the Time</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The proportion of cases surviving from the start of the table until this time.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cumulative_sum" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cumulative Sum</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A transformation which replaces each value by the cumulative sum of the existing
series. This is the inverse function of first-order differencing.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gbar15" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cumulative Sum (Graph Summary Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The sum of all values in the current category plus all values in previous categories.
Cumulative summary functions should not be used in pie charts, or in stacked bar charts and area
charts that have been transposed so that the cumulative function is along the scale axis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cumulative_variance_explained" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cumulative Variance Explained</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The cumulative amount of observed variable variance explained by adding each factor (or
component) to the model</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="current_periodicity_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Current Periodicity</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the seasonal periodicity that has been defined with the Define Dates procedure
on the Data menu.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="current_periodicity" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Current Periodicity</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Currently defined period used to calculate seasonal differences for time series data,
as determined by defined date variables (Data menu, Define Dates).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="custom_6" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Custom</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Enter a number in the Start text box and, for models with a trend, a number in the
Trend text box. Poor choice of initial values can result in an inferior solution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="custom" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Custom</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">User-specified cut point that assigns cases with values less than the cut point to one
group and cases with values greater than or equal to the other group. You must select at least one
cut point, and one test is performed for each cut point chosen. After selecting this option, enter a
value for the cut point.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="custom_attributes" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Custom attributes</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">User-defined variable or dataset attributes.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="custom_currency_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Custom Currency Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A numeric variable whose values are displayed in one of the custom currency formats
that you have defined in the Currency tab of the Options dialog box. Defined custom currency
characters cannot be used in data entry but are displayed in the Data Editor.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="custom_hypothesis_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Custom Hypothesis Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the tests performed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="custom_hypothesis_tests" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Custom Hypothesis Tests</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Custom hypotheses are specified by using the matrices in the model LBM=K.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="customized_distance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Customized distance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A dissimilarity measure that defines the distance between two cases as the rth root of
the sum of the absolute differences in values on each variable to the pth power.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="customized_distance_measure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Customized Distance Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A dissimilarity measure that defines the distance between two cases as the rth root of
the sum of the absolute differences in values on each variable to the pth power. Select a power and
a root from the drop-down lists.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gexsmooth04" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Custom Model (Exponential Smoothing)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A custom model allows you to specify the trend and seasonality components.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cut_point_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">cut point</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A cut point is used to separate cases into two groups, based upon whether values of a
numeric variable fall above or below the cut point.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cut_point" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cut Point</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">After selecting this option, specifies a numeric cut point for the Grouping Variable, a
value that separates the two groups. All codes less than the cut point form one group and all codes
greater than or equal to the cut point form the other group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cut_point_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cut Point</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">User-specified cut point. Assigns cases with values less than or equal to the cut point
to one group and cases with values greater than the cut point to the other group. After selecting
this option, enter a value for the cut point.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cut_points_for_equal_groups" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Cut Points for Equal Groups</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Values that divide the cases into some number of equal-sized groups. Enter a value
between 2 and 100 to specify the number of equal-sized groups.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="czl" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CZL</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of capability sigmas between the process mean and the lower specification
limit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="czlout" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CZLOUT</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The estimated percentage outside the lower specification limit. The standard normal
approximation is based on Z-lower.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="czmax" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CZMAX</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The maximum number of capability sigmas between the process mean and the specification
limits.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="czmin" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CZMIN</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The minimum number of capability sigmas between the process mean and the specification
limits.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="czout" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CZOUT</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The estimated percentage outside the specification limits. The standard normal
approximation is based on Z-upper and Z-lower.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="czu" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CZU</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of capability sigmas between the process mean and the upper specification
limit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="czuout" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">CZUOUT</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The estimated percentage outside the upper specification limit. The standard normal
approximation is based on Z-upper.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="daf" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">DAF</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The dispersion accounted for is one minus the normalized raw stress, and is a measure
of the overall fit of the model. The higher the dispersion accounted for, the better the fit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="damped_trend" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Damped trend</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This model is appropriate for series with a linear trend that is dying out and with no
seasonality. Its smoothing parameters are level, trend, and damping trend. Damped exponential
smoothing is most similar to an ARIMA model with 1 order of autoregression, 1 order of differencing,
and 2 orders of moving average.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="exsm_tdamp" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Damped Trend (Exponential Smoothing)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The mean level of the series increases or decreases with time, but the rate of change
declines. A trend that is dying out.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gspectra07" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Daniell (Unit) Window</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The shape of a spectral window for which the weights are all equal to 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="data_cell_width" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Data Cell Width</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies the width for all data cells in the table--in point, inches, or centimeters,
as specified in Options.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="data_entry_for_windows_information" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Data Entry for Windows Information</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Indicates whether or not the data file contains Data Entry for Windows
information.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_of_cases_file_information_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Data Information</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Information about number of cases, number of variables, and case weighting.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="data_type_5" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Data Type</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Indicates type of data in the file: case data or matrix data.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="date.dmy_day_month_year" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">DATE.DMY(day,month,year)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">DATE.DMY(day,month,year). Numeric. Returns a date value corresponding to the indicated
day, month, and year. The arguments must resolve to integers, with day between 0 and 31, month
between 1 and 13, and year a four-digit integer greater than 1582. To display the result as a date,
assign a date format to the result variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="date.mdy_month_day_year" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">DATE.MDY(month,day,year)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">DATE.MDY(month,day,year). Numeric. Returns a date value corresponding to the indicated
month, day, and year. The arguments must resolve to integers, with day between 0 and 31, month
between 1 and 13, and year a four-digit integer greater than 1582. To display the result as a date,
assign a date format to the result variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="date.moyr_month_year" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">DATE.MOYR(month,year)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">DATE.MOYR(month,year). Numeric. Returns a date value corresponding to the indicated
month and year. The arguments must resolve to integers, with month between 1 and 13, and year a
four-digit integer greater than 1582. To display the result as a date, assign a date format to the
result variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="date.qyr_quarter_year" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">DATE.QYR(quarter,year)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">DATE.QYR(quarter,year). Numeric. Returns a date value corresponding to the indicated
quarter and year. The arguments must resolve to integers, with quarter between 1 and 4, and year a
four-digit integer greater than 1582. To display the result as a date, assign a date format to the
result variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="date.wkyr_weeknum_year" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">DATE.WKYR(weeknum,year)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">DATE.WKYR(weeknum,year). Numeric. Returns a date value corresponding to the indicated
weeknum and year. The arguments must resolve to integers, with weeknum between 1 and 53, and year a
four-digit integer greater than 1582. The date value returned represents the first day of the
specified week for that year. The first week starts on January 1 of each year; so the date returned
for any given week value will differ between years. To display the result as a date, assign a date
format to the result variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="date.yrday_year_daynum" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">DATE.YRDAY(year,daynum)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">DATE.YRDAY(year,daynum). Numeric. Returns a date value corresponding to the indicated
year and daynum. The arguments must resolve to integers, with daynum between 1 and 366 and with year
being a four-digit integer greater than 1582. To display the result as a date, assign a date format
to the result variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="datediff_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">DATEDIFF(datetime1, datetime2, "unit")</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">DATEDIFF(datetime2, datetime1, "unit"). Numeric. Calculates the difference between two
date/time values and returns an integer (with any fraction component truncated) in the specified
date/time units, where datetime2 and datetime1 are both date or time format variables (or numeric
values that represent valid date/time values), and "unit" is one of the following string literal
values, enclosed in quotes: years, quarters, months, weeks, days, hours, minutes, seconds.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="date-format_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Date-Format Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A numeric variable whose values are displayed in one of several calendar-date or
clock-time formats. Select a template from the scrolling list. You can enter dates with slashes,
hyphens, periods, commas, or blank spaces as delimiters. The century range for 2-digit year values
is determined by your Options settings (Edit menu, Options, Data tab).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="datesum_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">DATESUM(datetime, value, "unit", "method")</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">DATESUM(datetime, value, "unit", "method"). Numeric. Calculates a date or time value
for a specified number of units from a given date or time value, where datetime is a date or time
format variable (or numeric value that represents a valid date/time value), and "unit" is one of the
following string literal values, enclosed in quotes: years, quarters, months, weeks, days, hours,
minutes, seconds. The optional method, enclosed in quotes, can be "rollover" or "closest". The
rollover method advances excess days into the next month. The closest method uses the closest
legitimate date within the month; this is the default. The value returned is a date/time value
expressed as a number of seconds. To display the value as a date/time, assign the appropriate format
to the variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="decay_factor" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Decay factor</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The parameter controlling the rate at which the effect of a transient outlier decays to
0. It ranges between 0 and 1, with larger values corresponding to slower decay rates.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="decimal_places" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Decimal Places</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of decimal places in the value. Decimal values longer than the defined number
are stored internally and rounded to the defined number for display.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="define_groups" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Define Groups</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies which codes of the Grouping Variable distinguish the two groups you want to
compare.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="define_range" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Define Range</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies the minimum and maximum integer value for the selected variable in the Factor
list. Specify a range for each factor.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="define_range_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Define Range</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies the minimum and maximum integer value for the Grouping Variable. The minimum
value must be less than the maximum value. Cases with values outside the bounds are excluded during
the analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="degeneracy_indices" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Degeneracy indices</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The degeneracy measures provide indications of degenerate solutions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="degree_of_differencing" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Degree of Differencing</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of times that a time series is transformed by taking differences between
series values and their predecessors. Degrees of differencing greater than 1 or 2 are unusual. The
number of values used in the calculations decreases by 1 for each seasonal differencing.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="degrees_of_freedom_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Degrees of Freedom</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The degrees of freedom associated with calculating F Change. df1 is the numerator
degrees of freedom and df2 is the denominator degrees of freedom.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="degrees_of_freedom_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Degrees of Freedom</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Degrees of freedom for the test distribution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="degrees_of_freedom" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Degrees of Freedom</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Value associated with a test statistic that is used in determining the observed
significance level.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="delay" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Delay</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies the value of any delay set for the associated independent variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="deleted_effect" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Deleted effect</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The effect is tested for significance by deleting it from the model. If the change in
chi-square is not significant; for example, if the significance value is greater than 0.10, the
effect can be dropped from the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="deleted" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Deleted residual</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The residual for a case when that case is excluded from the calculation of the
regression coefficients. It is the difference between the value of the dependent variable and the
adjusted predicted value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="deleted_residual" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Deleted Residual</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The residual for a case when that case is excluded from the calculation of the
regression coefficients. It is the difference between the value of the dependent variable and the
adjusted predicted value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="dendrogram" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Dendrogram</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A visual representation of the steps in a hierarchical clustering solution that shows
the clusters being combined and the values of the distance coefficients at each step. Connected
vertical lines designate joined cases. The dendrogram rescales the actual distances to numbers
between 0 and 25, preserving the ratio of the distances between steps.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="denominator" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Denominator</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The denominator variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="denominator_orders" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Denominator Orders</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies that the transfer function for the associated independent variable contains
denominator orders. The details for each lag (order) are provided.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="density_plot" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Density Plot</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the density function.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="dependent_s" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Dependent(s)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The variable whose values you want to predict or summarize.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="dependent_s_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Dependent(s)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the variables whose values you want to predict. If you select Time instead of an
Independent Variable, the dependent variable should be a time series measure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="dependent_list" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Dependent List</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the dependent variables you have chosen for the analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="dependents_together" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Dependents Together</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">For a given group, displays box plots for each variable side by side. You can easily
compare the values of the dependent variables for a particular group. This display is particularly
useful when the different variables represent a single characteristic measured at different
times.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="dependent_variable_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Dependent Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Also known as a response variable. A variable whose values are being predicted or
modeled, usually because it is thought to be influenced or caused by the factors and covariates, if
any.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="dependent_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Dependent Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Also known as a response variable. A variable whose values are being predicted or
modeled, usually because it is thought to be influenced or caused by the independent
variable(s).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<!--commented out because it doesn't appear to be used anywhere
and caused translation confusion
<glossentry id="dependent_variable_independent_variable" xml:lang="en-us"
>
<glossterm> <term id="term">Dependent Variable Independent Variable</term
> </glossterm>
<glossdef> <ph id="def">Displays results for each independent variable
in the first layer.</ph> </glossdef></glossentry>-->
<glossentry id="dependent_mi" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Dependent Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the variables with a role as a dependent during imputation, broken down by those
that were imputed, those that were not imputed because the percentage of missing values was too
high, and those that were not imputed because they had no missing values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="depth" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Depth</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of levels in the final tree model below the root node level.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="derivative" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Derivative</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The user-specified partial derivative of the model function.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="derivatives_nonlin" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Derivatives</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">One derivative is saved for each model parameter. Derivative names are created by
prefixing 'd.' to the first six characters of parameter names.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="derived_axis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Derived Axis</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An optional axis that appears on the opposite side of the chart from the scale axis.
The units displayed on this axis are derived from the scale axis units. For example, you might want
to display counts on the scale axis and percents on the derived axis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="desarbos_intermixedness_indices" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">DeSarbo's Intermixedness Indices</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of whether the points of the different sets are reasonably well intermixed.
Values closer to zero indicate more intermixed solutions, and are less likely to be degenerate.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="descending" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Descending</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the row variable values in descending order from highest to lowest.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="descending_counts" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Descending Counts</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Arranges frequency table according to the frequency of occurrence of the values.
Frequencies are arranged in descending order (most frequent to least frequent).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="descending_means" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Descending Means</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Sorts the variables in descending order (largest to smallest) of the Mean
statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="descending_values" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Descending Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Arranges frequency table according to the actual values in the data in descending order
(largest to smallest value).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="description_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Description</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A description of the rule properties.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="descriptive_statistics_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Descriptive Statistics</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays variable means, standard deviations, and a correlation matrix with one-tailed
probabilities.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="descriptive_statistics_5" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Descriptive Statistics</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the mean, minimum, maximum, standard deviation, and the number of nonmissing
cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="descriptive_statistics_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Descriptive Statistics</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to choose optional statistics and correlation matrices.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="descriptive_statistics_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Descriptive Statistics</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the mean, median, mode, 5% trimmed mean, standard error, variance, standard
deviation, minimum, maximum, range, interquartile range, skewness, skewness standard error, kurtosis
and kurtosis standard error.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="descriptive_statistics" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Descriptive Statistics</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Summary information about the distribution, variability, and central tendency of a
variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="descriptive_statistics_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Descriptive Statistics</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the number of cases, mean, standard deviation, standard error, minimum,
maximum, and 95% confidence interval for each dependent variable for each group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="design_effect" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Design Effect</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The ratio of the variance of the estimate to the variance obtained by assuming the
sample is a simple random sample. This is a measure of the effect of specifying a complex design,
where values further from 1 indicate greater effects.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="design_variables" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Design Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The stratification and cluster variables define the structure of the sample
design.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="determinant_of_correlation_matrix_factor_analysis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Determinant of Correlation Matrix (Factor Analysis)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The determinant of the matrix of correlation coefficients.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="detrended_normal_plots_explore" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Detrended Normal Plots (Explore)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Plots of the differences between the observed and expected values. If the sample is
from a normal distribution the points should cluster in a horizontal band around zero; there should
not be a pattern.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="deviance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Deviance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A goodness-of-fit statistic defined as twice the difference between the maximum
possible value of the log likelihood function and the value of the log likelihood for the fitted
model. When the maximum possible value of the log-likelihood function is 0, the deviance is the -2
log likelihood.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="deviance_residuals" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Deviance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Residuals based on the model deviance.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="deviance_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Deviance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Goodness of fit statistics based upon the deviance function.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="deviance_residual_general_loglinear" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Deviance Residual (General Loglinear)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The signed square root of an individual contribution to the likelihood-ratio chi-square
statistic (G squared), where the sign is the sign of the residual (observed count minus expected
count). Deviance residuals have an asymptotic standard normal distribution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="deviation_contrast" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Deviation Contrast</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A deviation contrast compares the effect for each category of the predictor variable or
factor, except one, to the overall effect.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="deviation_contrast_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Deviation Contrast</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Compares the mean of each level (except a reference category) to the mean of all of the
levels (grand mean). The levels of the factor can be in any order.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="deviation_contrasts" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Deviation Contrasts</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Compares the effect for each category of the predictor variable or factor, except one,
to the overall effect. Select either First or Last as the omitted category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="deviation_from_linearity" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Deviation from Linearity</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The component of the between-groups sums of squares that can not be attributed to a
linear relationship between the factor level and the dependent variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="deviation_in_detrended_normal_plot" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Deviation in Detrended Normal Plot</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">All points are ranked from smallest to largest and each is paired with an expected
normal value for a sample of that size from a standard normal distribution. The deviation in the
detrended normal plot is the difference between the standardized value for a case and its expected
normal value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="df" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">df</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The degrees of freedom used to obtain the observed significance level.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="df_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">df</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Degrees of freedom associated with this probability</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="df_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">df</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Degrees of freedom associated with this Mean Square</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="df1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">df1</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Numerator degrees of freedom. The numerator and denominator degrees of freedom are used
to obtain the observed significance level.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="df2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">df2</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Denominator degrees of freedom. The numerator and denominator degrees of freedom are
used to obtain the observed significance level.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="dfbeta_s" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">DfBeta(s)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The difference in beta value is the change in the regression coefficient that results
from the exclusion of a particular case. A value is computed for each term in the model, including
the constant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="dfbeta_coxreg" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">DfBetas</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Estimated change in a coefficient if a case is removed. One variable is saved for each
covariate in the final model. DfBetas are only available for models containing at least one
covariate.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="dffit" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">DfFit</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The difference in fit value is the change in the predicted value that results from the
exclusion of a particular case.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="diagnostic_checking" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Diagnostic Checking</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">After estimating the parameters of a model, you use visual and statistical checks to
see how well the estimated model fits the data, and whether or not you met the necessary assumptions
for fitting the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="diagonal_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Diagonal</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This covariance structure has heterogeneous variances and zero correlation between
elements.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="dice_similarity_measure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Dice Similarity Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A matching coefficient for binary variables in which joint absences are excluded from
both the denominator and the numerator and double weight is given to matches. Computed from a
fourfold table as 2a/(2a+b+c) where a represents cases present on both items, and b and c represent
cases present on one item but absent on the other.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="dichotomies" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Dichotomies</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Elementary variables having two categories. After selecting this option to create a
multiple dichotomy set, enter an integer value for Counted value. Each variable having at least one
occurrence of the counted value becomes a category of the multiple dichotomy set.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="dichotomous" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">dichotomous</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A term for a variable that has two possible values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gdichotomy" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Dichotomous Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A variable that has precisely two distinct values, apart from missing values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="difference" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Difference</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">d is the number of times the series must be differenced to make it stationary. Specify
a non-negative integer. Enter 0 if the process is already stationary.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="difference_8" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Difference</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies the number of differencing (integration) orders for the associated dependent
or independent variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="difference_estimate_-_hypothesized" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Difference (Estimate - Hypothesized)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The difference in the estimated and hypothesized values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="difference_prefscal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Difference (prefscal)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The difference in penalized stress between the last iteration and the current
iteration.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="difference_contrast_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Difference Contrast</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Compares the mean of each level (except the first) to the mean of previous levels. They
are sometimes called reverse Helmert contrasts.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="difference_contrasts" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Difference Contrasts</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The effect for each category of the predictor variable or factor except the first is
compared to the mean effect of the previous categories. Also known as reverse Helmert
contrasts.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="difference_estimate_hypothesized" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Difference Estimate Hypothesized</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The contrast estimate minus the hypothesized value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="difference_proportions" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Difference in Proportions</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The difference in observed proportions between two related or independent groups.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="difference_line_chart" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Difference Line Chart</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Chart containing two lines. Each line connects a series of points, one for each
category, case or variable on the category axis. The area between the two lines is shaded with a
color or pattern, which changes when the two lines cross to emphasize which line is higher at any
point.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="differences" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Differences</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This dimension lists the negative and positive differences, along with the number of
tied differences, and the total number of pairs.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gacf02" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Difference Transformation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Calculates the difference between successive values of the variable. You must enter a
positive value to specify the degree of differencing. A differencing of order 1 takes the current
value minus the previous value, just as this would imply. But a differencing of order 2 does the
same thing to the first order differenced series, rather than taking each value minus the one two
cases prior.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="dimension" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Dimension</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the dimensions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="dimension_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Dimension</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Labels the dimensions of the solution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="dimension_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Dimension</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Labels the dimensions of the solution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="dimensionality" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Dimensionality</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of dimensions in the solution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="dimensions_7" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Dimensions</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of dimensions in the user-provided initial configuration or fixed
coordinates.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="direction" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Direction</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Directional measures range from 0 to 1, where 0 means that knowledge of the independent
variable is no help in predicting the dependent variable, and 1 means that knowing the independent
variable perfectly identifies the categories of the dependent variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="direct_oblimin" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Direct Oblimin Method (Factor Analysis)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A method for oblique (nonorthogonal) rotation. When delta equals 0 (the default),
solutions are most oblique. As delta becomes more negative, the factors become less oblique. To
override the default delta of 0, enter a number less than or equal to 0.8.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="discordant" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Discordant</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The discordant cell counts or cell proportions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="discriminant_score" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Discriminant Score</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Scores computed by multiplying the unstandardized discriminant coefficients by the
values of the independent variables, summing these products, and adding the constant. One score is
saved for each discriminant function derived. The mean score for all cases combined is 0 and the
pooled within-groups variance is 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="dispersion" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">dispersion</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An attribute of a frequency distribution concerning the spread of the values. Measures
of dispersion include the variance, standard deviation, and interquartile range.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="dispersion_similarity_measure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Dispersion Similarity Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Similarity measure for binary data. Computed from a fourfold table as
(ad-bc)/(a+b+c+d)**2 where a represents the cell corresponding to cases present on both items, d the
cells corresponding to cases absent of both items, and b and c represent cases present on one item
but absent on the other. Has a range of -1 to +1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="display_actual_significance_level" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Display Actual Significance Level</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The probability and degrees of freedom are shown for each coefficient.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="display_anova_table" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Display ANOVA Table</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays a summary analysis-of-variance table for each selected model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="display_factor_score_coefficient_matrix" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Display Factor Score Coefficient Matrix</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the factor score coefficient matrix. The factor score covariance matrix is
also displayed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="display_frequency_tables" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Display Frequency Tables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays frequency tables for the selected variables. If deselected, no frequency table
is displayed, but any statistics and charts that you request will appear in the output.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="display_only_10_best_models_for_grid_search" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Display only 10 best models for grid search</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The parameter value(s) and sum of squared errors (SSE) are displayed for only the 10
parameter combinations with the lowest SSE regardless of the number of parameter combinations
tested. If this option is not selected, all tested parameter combinations are displayed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="distance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Distance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Distance of the case from its cluster center</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="distance_matrix" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Distance Matrix</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Matrix of distances between the items. The type of matrix produced (similarities or
dissimilarities) depends upon the measure selected. With a large number of items, this specification
produces a large volume of output.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="distinct_values" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Distinct Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the number of unique values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="distribution_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">distribution</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Details of the distribution type of the data.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="distribution_type" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">distribution type</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The distribution type of the data, for example, NORMAL.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="does_not_assume_equal_variances" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Does Not Assume Equal Variances</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the results without assuming that the population variances are equal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="dollar_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Dollar Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Defines a numeric variable whose values include a dollar sign, one period for the
decimal point, and multiple commas.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="do_not_create" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Do not create</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The new series are not added to the active dataset.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="dot_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Dot Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Defines a numeric variable whose values are displayed with periods delimiting every
three places, and with the comma as a decimal delimiter. The Data Editor accepts numeric values for
dot variables with or without dots; or in scientific notation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="drop-line_chart" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Drop-Line Chart</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The chart has vertical lines connecting the markers within each category. Each series
of markers can represent groups of cases, separate variables, or individual cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="duncans_multiple_range_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Duncan's Multiple Range Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Makes pairwise comparisons using a stepwise order of comparisons identical to the order
used by the Student-Newman-Keuls test, but sets a protection level for the error rate for the
collection of tests, rather than an error rate for individual tests. Uses the Studentized range
statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="dunnetts_c_post_hoc" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Dunnett's C (Post Hoc)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Pairwise comparison test based on the Studentized range. This test is appropriate when
the variances are unequal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="dunnetts_t3_post_hoc" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Dunnett's T3 (Post Hoc)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Pairwise comparison test based on the Studentized maximum modulus. This test is
appropriate when the variances are unequal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="dunnett_post_hoc" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Dunnett (Post Hoc)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Pairwise multiple comparison t test that compares a set of treatments against a single
control mean.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="duplicate_identifiers_group" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Duplicate Identifiers Group</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The label given to a group of cases with duplicate identifying values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="durbin-watson" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Durbin-Watson</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the Durbin-Watson test for serially correlated residuals and summary
statistics for residuals and predicted values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="durbin-watson_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Durbin-Watson Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A test for serially correlated (or autocorrelated) residuals. One of the assumptions of
regression analysis is that the residuals for consecutive observations are uncorrelated. If this is
true, the expected value of the Durbin-Watson statistic is 2. Values less than 2 indicate positive
autocorrelation, a common problem in time-series data. Values greater than 2 indicate negative
autocorrelation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="edit_look" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Edit Look</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the Table Properties dialog box to enable changes to the current table
look.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="effect" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Effect</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A factor or interaction term in the model. The actual effect being tested is indicated
before all tests.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="effect_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Effect</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A factor, covariate, or interaction term in the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="effective_prior" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Effective Prior</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">When the user specifies prior probabilities that do not sum to 1, Discriminant offers a
set of prior probabilities that do sum to 1. A prior probability is an estimate of the likelihood
that a case belongs to a particular group when no other information about it is available.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="effect_pattern" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Effect Pattern</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An effect in the within-subjects design.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="effect_size" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Effect Size</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The test effect size.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="effect_size_nondirect" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Effect Size</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The effect size of the non-directional test.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="effect_size_pairwise" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Effect Size</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The effect size for each pairwise difference.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="effect_selection_tests" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Effect Selection Tests</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Tests used to determine whether an effect is added or removed from the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="eigenvalue_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Eigenvalue</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Eigenvalues provide an indication of how many distinct dimensions there are among the
independent variables. When several eigenvalues are close to zero, the variables are highly
intercorrelated and small changes in the data values may lead to large changes in the estimates of
the coefficients.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="eigenvalue" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Eigenvalue (Factor Analysis)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An index representing the variance associated with a particular factor. The sum of the
eigenvalues cannot exceed the number of variables in the analysis (when analyzing a correlation
matrix) or the sum of the variances for all variables (when analyzing a covariance matrix).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="eigenvalues" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Eigenvalues</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Measure of the explained variance per dimension. Larger eigenvalues indicate dimensions
that are of more importance in the overall solution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="eigenvalues_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Eigenvalues</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The eigenvalue is the ratio of the between-groups sum of squares to the within-groups
sum of squares. The largest eigenvalue corresponds to the eigenvector in the direction of the
maximum spread of the groups means, the second largest eigenvalue corresponds to the eigenvector in
the direction that has the next largest spread, and so on.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="eigenvalues_over_n" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Eigenvalues Over n</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">By default, factors with eigenvalues greater than 1 (when analyzing a correlation
matrix) or the average item variance (when analyzing a covariance matrix) are extracted. To use a
different eigenvalue as the cutoff value for factor extraction, enter a number between 0 and the
total number of variables in your analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="em_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">EM</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays means, correlation matrix, and covariance matrix, computed using an EM
algorithm. The EM (expectation maximization) method estimates missing values by an iterative
process. Each iteration has an E step to calculate expected values of parameters and an M step to
calculate maximum likelihood estimates.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="empirical" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Empirical</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Method of estimating percentiles using the empirical distribution function.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="empty_case_indicator" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Empty Case Indicator</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">No help for Notes table.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="endogenous" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Endogenous</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A variable is endogenous in a model if it is at least partly a function of other
variables in the model. </ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="end_point" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">End Point</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">These values define the upper and lower bounds of the bins generated for this
variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="endpoints_weighted_by_.5" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Endpoints weighted by .5</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Moving averages for series with even periodicity are calculated with a span equal to
the periodicity plus 1 and with the endpoints of the span weighted by 0.5.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="enter" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Enter</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A procedure for variable selection in which the named variables are entered in a single
step without checking any of the entry criteria except tolerance.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="enter_regression" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Enter (Regression)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A procedure for variable selection in which all variables in a block are entered in a
single step.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="entered" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Entered</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variable included in the analysis at a particular step.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="enter_independents_together" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Enter Independents Together</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Forced-entry method. All independent variables that satisfy tolerance criteria are
entered simultaneously.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="entropy" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Entropy</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of dispersion that uses p * ln(p) as the basic measure of error, where p is
the probability an observation falls in a given cell.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="epsilon_general_loglinear" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Epsilon (General Loglinear)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value used for redundancy checking in the design matrix. </ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="equamax_method" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Equamax Method</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A rotation method that is a combination of the varimax method, which simplifies the
factors, and the quartimax method, which simplifies the variables. The number of variables that load
highly on a factor and the number of factors needed to explain a variable are minimized.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="equation_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Equation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays labels for the models being fit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="equation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Equation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The function that defines the shape of the curve.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="error" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Error</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The variation left unexplained after the model has been considered, or for a mixed- or
random-effects model, the error term used for testing the hypothesis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="error_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Error</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The residual term.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="error_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Error</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Statistics for the within-cluster variance</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="error_6" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Error</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Measure of the badness-of-fit of the solution, or how poorly the solution fits the
original data. The error is the square root of the sum of squared differences between the dependent
variable and the prediction.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="error_mlp" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Error (MLP)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the error function is displayed for each sample. If there are multiple
target (dependent) variables, the average error over all targets is displayed in addition to the
error for each target.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="error_rbf" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Error (RBF)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the error function is displayed for each sample. If there are multiple
target (dependent) variables, the average error over all targets is displayed in addition to the
error for each target.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="error_df" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Error DF</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The degrees of freedom associated with the error term.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="error_function_mlp" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Error Function (MLP)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The error function is the measure that the neural network is trying to minimize.
Cross-entropy error is used if the output layer activation function is Softmax; otherwise sum of
squares error is used.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="error_function_rbf" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Error Function (RBF)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The error function is the measure that the neural network is trying to minimize. Sum of
squares error is always used.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="error_term" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Error Term</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The effect or combination of effects against which the hypothesis term is being
tested.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="error_variance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">error variance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The error variance of a scale is the portion of the common variance that is due to
error. Common variance = true variance + error variance.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="estimable_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Estimable Function</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The linear combination of parameters in the design. When applied to the estimates, the
result is an unbiased estimate of the original combination.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="estimable_function_for_intercept" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Estimable Function for Intercept</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An estimable function of parameters in the model used to test the intercept. An
estimable function is a function of parameters which is invariant with respect to the choice of a
least-squares solution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="estimable_function_for_intercept_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Estimable Function for Intercept</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The contrast for testing the value of the intercept.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="estimate_5" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Estimate</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The estimated value of the parameter.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="estimate_tree" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Estimate</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The proportion of cases misclassified by the model if custom costs have not been
defined. Costs can increase or decrease the risk estimate.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="estimate_9" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Estimate</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The estimated value of the regression coefficient.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="estimate" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Estimate</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value estimated for the variance due to the indicated effect or interaction.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="estimate_8" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Estimate</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Estimated value of the model parameter.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="estimate_6" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Estimate</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the parameter estimate. Note that the bootstrap estimates are, in fact,
the asymptotic estimates. Bootstrapping is only used to compute the standard error, confidence
intervals, and trimmed range.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="estimate_multinomial_logistic_regression" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Estimate (multinomial logistic regression)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Estimate of the coefficient of the parameter effect on the logit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="estimate_of_between_component_variance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Estimate of Between Component Variance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The component of the total variation that can be attributed to the differences between
groups under the random effects or variance component model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="estimates" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Estimates</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Regression coefficients and related measures.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="estimates_of_effect_size" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Estimates of Effect Size</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Partial eta-squared. Partial eta-squared is the ratio of the variation accounted for by
an individual independent variable (SSH) to the sum of the variation accounted for by the
independent variable and the variation unaccounted for by the model as a whole (SSH+SSE).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="estimation_period" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Estimation Period</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The range of cases from which the model is estimated. Also called the historical
period. Defined with the Range subdialog box of the Select Cases option on the Data menu.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="estimator_assumption" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Estimator Assumption</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">For the purposes of estimation, analysis procedures should treat the sample as if the
method had these properties.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="eta" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Eta</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of association that is appropriate for a dependent variable measured on an
interval scale and an independent variable with a limited number of categories. Eta is asymmetric
and does not assume a linear relationship between the variables. Eta-squared can be interpreted as
the proportion of variance in the dependent variable explained by differences among groups.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="eta_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Eta</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of association that that ranges from 0 to 1, with 0 indicating no association
between the variables and values close to 1 indicating a high degree of association. Eta is
appropriate for a dependent variable measured on an interval scale (for example, income) and an
independent variable with a limited number of categories (for example, gender).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="eta_crosstabs" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Eta (Crosstabs)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of association that ranges from 0 to 1, with 0 indicating no association
between the row and column variables and values close to 1 indicating a high degree of association.
Eta is appropriate for a dependent variable measured on an interval scale (for example, income) and
an independent variable with a limited number of categories (for example, gender). Two eta values
are computed: one treats the row variable as the interval variable, and the other treats the column
variable as the interval variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="eta-squared" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Eta-Squared</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Eta-squared is interpreted as the proportion of the total variability in the dependent
variable that is accounted for by variation in the independent variable. It is the ratio of the
between groups sum of squares to the total sum of squares.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="euclidean_distance_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Euclidean distance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The distance between two points that is computed by joining them with a straight
line.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="euclidean_distance_measure_binary_data" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Euclidean Distance Measure (Binary Data)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A version of the Euclidean dissimilarity coefficient for binary data. Computed from a
fourfold table as SQRT(b+c), where b and c represent cases present on one item but absent on the
other.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="euclidean_distance_measure_interval_data" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Euclidean Distance Measure (Interval Data)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A dissimilarity measure for continuous data. The distance between two items is the
square root of the sum of the squared differences in values for each variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="event" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Event</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of subjects where the event of interest (defined by the status variable) has
occurred.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="events" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Events</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases in which the event of interest occurred.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="events_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Events/Trials</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">When the response is a number of events occurring in a set of trials, the dependent
variable contains the number of events and you can select an additional variable containing the
number of trials. Alternatively, if the number of trials is the same across all subjects, then
trials may be specified using a fixed number of trials.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="event_time" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Event time</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Ordered observed event times.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="exact" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Exact</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The probability of the observed outcome or an outcome more extreme is calculated
exactly. Typically, a significance level less than 0.05 is considered significant, indicating that
there is some relationship between the row and column variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="exact_2_x_1-tailed_significance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Exact 2 x 1-Tailed Significance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The exact probability of obtaining results as extreme as the one observed, and in
either direction when the null hypothesis is true. This significance level tests a null hypothesis
in which the direction of an effect is not specified in advance. Calculated by multiplying the
one-tailed significance level by two.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="exact_binomial" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Exact Binomial</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Exact binomial probability of results at least as different from the null-hypothesized 
value if the null is true.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="exact_binomial_cond" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Exact</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Exact binomial conditional probability of difference in disagreements being as large or larger 
than observed under the null hypothesis of equal population proportions. Conservative.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="exactly" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Exactly</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Selects a random sample of the specified number of cases from the specified total
number of cases. If the total number of cases specified exceeds the total number of cases in the
data file, the sample will contain proportionally fewer cases than the requested number.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="exact_maximum-likelihood" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Exact maximum-likelihood</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An estimation technique that for a given model and set of data finds the parameter
estimates that are "most likely" to have produced the observed data. This method can handle missing
data within the series and can be used when one of the independent variables is the lagged dependent
variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="exact_number_of_runs" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Exact Number of Runs</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">When there are no tied observations the exact number of runs is displayed. This value
is used to calculate the test statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="exact_significance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Exact Significance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The significance level based on the exact distribution of a test statistic. When the
data set is small, sparse, contains many ties, is unbalanced, or is poorly distributed, it is
preferable to calculate the significance level based on the exact distribution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="exclude_cases_analysis_by_analysis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Exclude Cases Analysis by Analysis</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Excludes cases that have missing values for the variable involved in that test.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="exclude_cases_listwise" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Exclude Cases Listwise</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Excludes cases that have missing values for any of the variables used in any of the
analyses.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="exclude_cases_pairwise" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Exclude Cases Pairwise</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Excludes from analysis cases with missing values for either or both of the pair of
variables in computing a specific statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="excluded" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Excluded</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the number and percentage of cases excluded from this analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="excluded_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Excluded Cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cases that are excluded due to missing values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="excluded_variables_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Excluded Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Information is provided about the variables not in the equations. Use it to track what
variables are removed and if there are any closely contending variables that you might prefer to use
instead.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="exhaustive_chaid" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Exhaustive CHAID</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A modification of CHAID that examines all possible splits for each predictor.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="exp_b_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Exp(B)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The natural logarithm raised to the parameter value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="exp_b" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Exp (B)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">e (2.718) raised to the value of the regression coefficient. This is the value by which
the odds of the event change when the ith independent variable increases by one unit. If the value
is greater than 1, the odds are increased; if the value is less than 1, the odds are decreased. A
value of 1 leaves the odds unchanged.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="exp_numexpr" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">EXP(numexpr)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">EXP(numexpr). Numeric. Returns e raised to the power numexpr, where e is the base of
the natural logarithms and numexpr is numeric. Large values of numexpr may produce results that
exceed the capacity of the machine.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="expected_cell_frequency" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Expected Cell Frequency</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of observations expected in a cell if the row and column variables are
independent. The probability of a case falling in a given row is computed as the proportion of cases
in the total sample falling in that row. The probability of a case falling in a given column is
computed as the proportion of cases in the total sample falling in that column. The probability of a
case falling into a given cell under the assumption of independence is the product of its row and
column probabilities. The expected cell frequency is the probability of a case falling into that
cell multiplied by the sample size.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="expected_count" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Expected Count</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases that would be expected in the cell if the row and column variables
are statistically independent or unrelated to one another.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="expected_n" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Expected N</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases expected if the null hypothesis is true.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="expected_responses" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Expected Responses</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The expected responses column reports the number of cases you would expect to see in
the cell if the model is correct.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="expected_values" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Expected Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number or percentage of cases expected in an interval if a variable is normally
distributed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="experimental" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Experimental</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Evaluates factor main effects before factor interactions, adjusting effects of each
kind for all other effects of that kind and for previously-evaluated kinds.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="experimental_group" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Experimental Group</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The group compared to the control group to see if the groups are effected in the same
way. The experimental group was defined by the group 2 value in the Define Groups dialog box.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="exploded_pie_chart" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Exploded Pie Chart</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A pie chart in which one (or more) sector is detached from the rest of the pie for
emphasis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="exponential_distribution" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">exponential_distribution</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The exponential distribution takes one scale parameter, which can represent the rate of
decay and must be positive. The exponential distribution is a special case of the gamma
distribution. A major use of this distribution is life testing.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="exponential_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Exponential Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Model whose equation is Y = b0 * (e**(b1 * t)) or ln(Y) = ln(b0) + (b1 * t).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="exsm_texp" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Exponential Trend (Exponential Smoothing)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The mean level of the series increases or decreases exponentially with time.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="extraction" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Extraction</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to choose an extraction method, obtain a scree plot, control how many
factors are extracted, or specify the maximum iterations for convergence.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="extraction_communality" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Extraction communality</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Communalities for the variables given the (unrotated) solution. The communality is the
squared multiple correlation for the variable using the factors as predictors.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="extraction_sums_of_squared_loadings" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Extraction Sums of Squared Loadings</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Sums of Squared Loadings for the unrotated factor solution, which gives the variance
accounted for by each factor (or component)</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="extremes" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Extremes</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the 5 lowest and 5 highest observations.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gbox02" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Extremes (Box plots)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cases with values more than 3 box lengths from the upper or lower edge of the box. The
box length is the interquartile range.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="f" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">F</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Tests if the variances are equal. When the F value is large and the significance level
is small (smaller than say 0.10, 0.05, or 0.01) the hypothesis of equal variances can be
rejected.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="f_7" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">F</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The F statistic for the associated test. An F statistic has two associated degrees of
freedom; the "numerator", df1, and "denominator", df2.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="fa1_diagonal_offset" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">FA1 diagonal offset</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The homogenous diagonal offset term for the First Order Factor Analytic with constant
diagonal offset covariance structure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="fa1_lambda_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">FA1 lambda ^1</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The heterogeneous diagonal term used to compute covariances for the First Order Factor
Analytic with constant diagonal offset covariance structure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="factor_14" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Factor</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Factors are composites of the observed variables which can be thought of as underlying
or latent variables which account for relationships among the observed variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="factor" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Factor</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An independent variable defining groups of cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="factor_16" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Factor</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Factor variables are the independent variables used in a conjoint analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="factor_s" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Factor(s)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists one or more categorical variables, or factors which split your file into two or
more groups.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="factor_levels" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Factor Levels</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The categories in each between-subjects factor.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="factor_levels_together" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Factor Levels Together</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">For each dependent variable, box plots for each group are displayed side by side. You
can easily compare how the values of the dependent variable vary across groups. If no factor
variable is selected, only a box plot for the total sample is shown.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="factor_list" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Factor List</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Produces separate analyses for groups of cases, based on their values for one or more
numeric or short string variable. If you select more than one factor variable, separate summaries of
each dependent variable are produced for each factor variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="factor_loading_plot" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Factor Loading Plot</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Three-dimensional factor loading plot of the first three factors. For a two-factor
solution, a two-dimensional plot is shown. The plot is not displayed if only one factor is
extracted. Plots display rotated solutions if rotation is requested.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="factors" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Factors</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Independent variables defining groups of cases, typically to test whether the mean of a
dependent variable is the same within each group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="factors_and_covariates" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Factors and Covariates</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays goodness-of-fit statistics for the factors and the covariates.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gfactorvar" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Factor Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Defines groups of cases, typically to test whether the mean of a dependent variable is
the same within each group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="failure_success" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Failure/Success</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The observed number of pairs whose response denotes a “failure".</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="fah1_diagonal_offset_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">FAH1 diagonal offset ^1</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The heterogeneous diagonal offset term for the First Order Factor Analytic with
constant diagonal offset covariance structure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="fah1_lambda_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">FAH1 lambda ^1</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The heterogeneous diagonal term used to compute covariances for the First Order Factor
Analytic with heterogeneous diagonal offset covariance structure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="f_change" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">F Change</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Statistic used for testing the null hypothesis that inclusion of an additional variable
does not result in a significant increase in R-squared.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="f_for_pairwise_distances" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">F for Pairwise Distances</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays a matrix of pairwise F ratios for each pair of groups. The F's are for
significance tests for Mahalanobis distances between groups.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="fiducial_confidence_intervals" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Fiducial Confidence Intervals</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Confidence intervals for the dosage of agent required to produce a certain probability
of response.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="file_contents" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">File Contents</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Contents of the data file</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="file_is_already_sorted_on_break_variable_s" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">File is already sorted on break variable(s)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">If the data have already been sorted by values of the break variables, this option
enables the procedure to run more quickly and use less memory. Use this option with caution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="files_saved" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Files Saved</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is the name of the matrix file to which category quantifications were
written.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="final_fitted_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Final (fitted model)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The user-specified model. If the difference in the fitted and null or intercept model
-2 log likelihoods is large, then you can reject the hypothesis that all the parameter coefficients
are 0.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="final_absolute_difference" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Final Absolute Difference</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is the maximum absolute change in expected cell frequency at the final
iteration.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="final_parameters_only" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Final parameters only</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the final parameter estimates and goodness-of-fit statistics.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="final_relative_difference" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Final Relative Difference</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is the maximum relative change in expected cell frequency at the final
iteration.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="aicc_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Finite Sample Corrected AIC (AICC)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure for selecting and comparing models based on the -2 log likelihood. Smaller
values indicate better models. The AICC "corrects" the AIC for small sample sizes. As the sample
size increases, the AICC converges to the AIC.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="first_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">First</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the first data value encountered in the data file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="first-order-ante-dependence" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">First-Order-Ante-Dependence</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This covariance structure has heterogeneous variances and heterogeneous correlations
between adjacent elements. The correlation between two non-adjacent elements is the product of the
correlations between the elements that lie between the elements of interest.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="first-order_autoregressive" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">First-Order Autoregressive</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This structure has constant variance. The correlation between any two elements is equal
to rho for adjacent elements, rho*rho for elements that are separated by a third, and so on. rho is
constrained so that -1&lt;rho&lt;1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="first-order_factor_analytic_const_diag" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">First-Order Factor Analytic, Const Diag</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This covariance structure has heterogeneous variances that are comprised of a term that
is heterogeneous across elements and a term that is homogenous across elements. The covariance
between any two elements is the square root of the product of their heterogeneous variance
terms.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="first-order_factor_analytic_heter_diag" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">First-Order Factor Analytic, Heter Diag</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This covariance structure has heterogeneous variances that are comprised of two terms
that are heterogeneous across elements. The covariance between any two elements is the square root
of the product of the first of their heterogeneous variance terms.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="first_value_aggregate_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">First Value (Aggregate Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the source variable for the first case in the break group. </ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="fishers" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Fisher's</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays Fisher's classification function coefficients that can be used directly for
classification. A separate set of classification function coefficients is obtained for each group,
and a case is assigned to the group for which it has the largest discriminant score (classification
function value).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="fishers_exact_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Fisher's Exact Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A test for independence in a 2 X 2 table. It is most useful when the total sample size
and the expected values are small.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="fixed_coordinates" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Fixed Coordinates</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of user-provided fixed coordinates. The fixed coordinates plus free
coordinates should equal the dimensions times the number of objects.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="fixed_effects" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Fixed Effects</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The model parameters associated with the fixed effects.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="fixed-effects_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Fixed-Effects Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A model in which the groups in the sample constitute all groups of interest. That is,
the groups are not considered random samples from some larger population of groups.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="flag_significant_correlations" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Flag Significant Correlations</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Flags correlation coefficients significant at the 0.05 level with a single asterisk,
and those significant at the 0.01 level with two asterisks.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="footnotes" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Footnotes</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">To hide a footnote, select the footnote and from the View menu choose Hide.
Alternately, right-click the footnote and choose Hide.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="for_cohort" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">For Cohort</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the estimate of relative risk for the defined event.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="for_each_observation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">For Each Observation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies whether values for variables in a multi-variable plot are joined with
vertical lines.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="for_each_stratum" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">For Each Stratum</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Performs a separate test of equality of all factor levels for each stratum. If you do
not have a stratification variable, the tests are not performed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="forecast" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Forecast</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Using an estimated model to predict future series values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="forecast_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Forecast</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The forecasted value. Any empty values are caused by the fact that the forecast period
can vary by model, and simply mean that a forecast value does not apply for the associated
period.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="forecasting_error" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Forecasting Error</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The discrepancy between an observed value and its forecast, based on a specified
model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="format" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Format</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to change the format of frequency tables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="format_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Format</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the formats available in the selected category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="format_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Format</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to modify the row order.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="format_file_information" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Format (file information)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variable format (e.g., F8.2, F2, A8, DATE10)</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="forward_selection" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Forward Selection</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A stepwise variable selection procedure in which variables are sequentially entered
into the model. The first variable considered for entry into the equation is the one with the
largest positive or negative correlation with the dependent variable. This variable is entered into
the equation only if it satisfies the criterion for entry. If the first variable is entered, the
independent variable not in the equation that has the largest partial correlation is considered
next. The procedure stops when there are no variables that meet the entry criterion.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="forward_selection_conditional" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Forward Selection (Conditional)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Stepwise selection method with entry testing based on the significance of the score
statistic, and removal testing based on the probability of a likelihood-ratio statistic based on
conditional parameter estimates.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="forward_selection_likelihood_ratio" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Forward Selection (Likelihood Ratio)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Stepwise selection method with entry testing based on the significance of the score
statistic, and removal testing based on the probability of a likelihood-ratio statistic based on the
maximum partial likelihood estimates.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="forward_selection_wald" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Forward Selection (Wald)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Stepwise selection method with entry testing based on the significance of the score
statistic, and removal testing based on the probability of the Wald statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="fraction_above_aggregate_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Fraction Above (Aggregate Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The proportion of the cases in the break group whose value for the source variable is
greater than the specified value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="fractional_rank_rank_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Fractional Rank (Rank Cases)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the new variable equals rank divided by the sum of the weights of the
nonmissing cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="fractional_rank_as_percent_rank_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Fractional Rank As Percent (Rank Cases)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Each rank is divided by the number of cases with valid values and multiplied by
100.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="fractional_rank_estimation_method" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Fractional Rank Estimation Method</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies the formula to be used in estimating the empirical distribution in p-p plots
and calculating the expected quantile values in q-q plots.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="fraction_below_aggregate_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Fraction Below (Aggregate Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The proportion of the cases in the break group whose value for the source variable is
less than the specified value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="fraction_inside_aggregate_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Fraction Inside (Aggregate Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The proportion of the cases in the break group whose value for the source variable is
greater than or equal to the specified Low value, and less than or equal to the specified High
value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="fraction_outside_aggregate_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Fraction Outside (Aggregate Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The proportion of the cases in the break group whose value for the source variable is
less than the specified Low value or greater than the specified High value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="free_coordinates" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Free Coordinates</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of coordinates that are not fixed by the user. The fixed coordinates plus
free coordinates should equal the dimensions times the number of objects.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="frequencies_as_vertical_axis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Frequencies as Vertical Axis</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays bar charts of frequencies (counts, the number of cases in each category).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="frequency_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Frequency</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The count or number of cases/objects having the same value of a variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="frequency" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Frequency</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The count or number of cases having each value (or range of values) of a variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="frequency_5" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Frequency</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Numbers of cases, by covariate pattern.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="frequency_table" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Frequency Table</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Crosstabulation of the row and column variables. The table includes the number of cases
in each cell and the row and column marginal totals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="frequency_tables" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Frequency Tables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Summary of the number of times different values of a variable occur.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="friedmans_chi-square" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Friedman's Chi-Square</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Friedman's chi-square is used to test the hypothesis that the items do not account for
a significant portion of the within-person variability.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="friedman_chi-square" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Friedman Chi-Square</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays Friedman's chi-square and Kendall's coefficient of concordance. This option is
appropriate for data that are in the form of ranks. The chi-square test replaces the usual F test in
the ANOVA table.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="friedman_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Friedman Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Tests the null hypothesis that k related variables come from the same population. For
each case, the k variables are ranked from 1 to k. The test statistic is based on these ranks.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="f_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">F Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays a repeated measures analysis-of-variance table.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="f-test_of_hotellings_t_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">F-Test of Hotelling's T2 Statistic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Hotelling's T-squared statistic is compared to an F distribution with df1=(# items-1)
and df2=(weighted sum of cases - # items + 1). If the significance value of the test is less than
0.05, you must reject the null hypothesis that all items in the scale have the same mean.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="f_test_with_true_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">F Test with True Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A test of the null hypothesis that the value of the intraclass correlation is equal to
the given "true" value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="f-to-enter" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">F-to-Enter</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The variable with the largest F-to-enter at each step enters the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="f-to-remove" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">F-to-Remove</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The F-to-remove statistic for the entering variable is the same as its F-to-enter
statistic at the previous step. F-to-remove and Wilks' lambda are useful for describing what happens
if the variable is removed from the current model (given that the other variables remain).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gman_full" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Full Factorial Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A model that includes main effects for all factors and all possible interactions
between factors.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="function_6" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Function</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Labels the discriminant functions by number.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="function_rank_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Function (Rank Cases)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The ranking method used to assign values to the new variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="function_precision" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Function Precision</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is a measure of the accuracy with which the objective function can be measured. It
acts as a relative precision when the function is large, and an absolute precision when the function
is small. To override the default value, select an alternate precision value from the drop-down list
or select disable to disable this setting.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="functions_dropped" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Functions Dropped</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the functions by number that have been dropped.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="f_value_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">F value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The ratio of between-cluster variance to within-cluster variance. Large values indicate
that this variable is an important contributor to the classification of cases. This should not be
interpreted as a traditional F statistic, however, since the cluster algorithm is designed to
maximize group differences.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="f_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">F Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The ratio of two mean squares. When the F value is large and the significance level is
small (typically smaller than 0.05 or 0.01) the null hypothesis can be rejected. In other words, a
small significance level indicates that the results probably are not due to random chance.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gabriel_post_hoc" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Gabriel (Post Hoc)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Pairwise comparison test that used the Studentized maximum modulus and is generally
more powerful than Hochberg's GT2 when the cell sizes are unequal. Gabriel's test may become liberal
when the cell sizes vary greatly.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gain" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Gain</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The quotient of dividing the cross amplitude by the spectral density for one of the
series. Each of the two series has its own gain value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gain_tree" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Gain</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases in the node that belong to the target category and the percentage
of total cases in the target category in that node.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="games-howell_post_hoc" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Games-Howell (Post Hoc)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Pairwise comparison test that is sometimes liberal. This test is appropriate when the
variances are unequal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gamma" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Gamma</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A symmetric measure of association between two ordinal variables that ranges between -1
and 1. Values close to an absolute value of 1 indicate a strong relationship between the two
variables. Values close to 0 indicate little or no relationship. For 2-way tables, zero-order gammas
are displayed. For 3-way to n-way tables, conditional gammas are displayed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="generalized_least-squares_method" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Generalized Least-Squares Method</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A factor extraction method that minimizes the sum of the squared differences between
the observed and reproduced correlation matrices. Correlations are weighted by the inverse of their
uniqueness, so that variables with high uniqueness are given less weight than those with low
uniqueness.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="generalized_odds_ratio" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Generalized Odds Ratio</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An extension of the odds ratio for tables larger than 2 x 2. The logarithm of this
measure, the generalized log-odds ratio (or GLOR), is easier to work with in terms of hypothesis
testing.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="generalized_score" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Generalized Score Statistic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">For models which do not have a likelihood function, this provides a rough measure of
how well the model fits the data.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="general_model_test_of_parallel_slopes" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">General model (test of parallel slopes)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The general model allows slopes to differ across categories</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="generating_class" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Generating Class</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The highest-order terms in which variables appear in a hierarchical loglinear model.
The generating class (A*B, C) corresponds to a model which contains the main effects A, B, and C,
and the A by B interaction term.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="geometric_mean" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Geometric Mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The nth root of the product of the data values, where n represents the number of
cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="get_from_data_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Get From Data</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Assigns cases with the lower category of a dichotomous variable to one group and cases
with the higher category to the other group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="get_from_data" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Get From Data</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Each distinct value encountered is defined as a category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="goodman_and_kruskals_tau" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Goodman and Kruskal's Tau</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of association which reflects the proportional reduction in error when values
of the independent variable are used to predict values of the dependent variable. Values range from
0 to 1. Unlike lambda, where the modal category is used for predictions, tau uses the marginal
proportions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="goodness_of_fit_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Goodness of Fit</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Larger values of goodness-of-fit statistics indicate better models.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="goodness_of_fit" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Goodness of Fit</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of how well the model fits the data. It is based on the squared differences
between the observed and predicted probabilities. A small observed significance level for the
goodness-of-fit statistic indicates that the model does not fit well.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry xml:lang="en-us" id="goodness_of_fit_3">
<glossterm>
<term>Goodness of Fit</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph>A test of fit between observed data and a specified model. Small observed significance levels
indicate that the data are unlikely assuming the model is correct.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gradient_and_hessian" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Gradient and Hessian</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The product of the gradient vector and the generalized inverse of the Hessian matrix
determine the initial size and direction of the "step" the algorithm takes at a given iteration. If
step-halving is in effect, the size of the step is reduced by the step-halving factor.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="grand_mean" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Grand Mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The mean of the dependent variable calculated for all the cases included in the
analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="greater_than_median" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Greater Than Median</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the number of observations that are greater than the median.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="greater_than_or_equal_to_varvalue" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Greater Than or Equal to Varvalue</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays information about the observations that are greater than or equal to the cut
point value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="greenhouse-geisser_epsilon" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Greenhouse-Geisser Epsilon</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An adjustment used in univariate repeated measures when the sphericity assumption is
violated. Both numerator and denominator degrees of freedom must be multiplied by epsilon, and the
significance of the F ratio evaluated with the new degrees of freedom. It tends to be overly
conservative for small sample sizes.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="grid_lines_charts" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Grid Lines (Charts)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lines that are positioned similarly to tick marks, but extend through the plot. Grid
lines often make it easier to read data values. They are especially useful to emphasize the use of a
logarithmic scale.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="grid_search" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Grid Search</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The parameter is assigned a starting value in the Start box, an increment value in the
By box, and an ending value in the Stop box. Enter these values after selecting Grid Search. The
ending value must be greater than the starting value, and the increment value must be less than
their difference.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="group_10" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">group</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A level of the grouping variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="group" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Group</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Information is displayed for the selected and unselected cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="group_8" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Group</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The second most likely group that the case belongs to.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="group_hosmer-lemeshow_goodness-of-fit_table" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Group (Hosmer-Lemeshow goodness-of-fit table)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The decile of risk described by each row of the table.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="group_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Group 1</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists information about the observations in group 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="group_1_and_group_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Group 1 and Group 2</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Enter integer values for Group 1 and Group 2. Cases with other values are
excluded.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="group_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Group 2</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists information about the observations in group 2.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="grouped_median" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Grouped Median</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Median that is calculated for data that is coded into groups. For example, with age
data, if each value in the 30s is coded 35, each value in the 40s is coded 45, and so on, the
grouped median is the median calculated from the coded data.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="grouping_variable_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Grouping Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the variable you have chosen for the analysis, which splits your data file
into two or more groups. After selecting a Grouping Variable use Define Range to define the
categories of your Grouping Variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="grouping_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Grouping Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variable that divides cases into two groups for the test. The grouping variable should
be a dichotomous variable or a categorical variable with groups you want to test.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="group_means" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Group Means</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The average values calculated separately for each group in the analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="group_percentile" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Group Percentile</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The data value below which the specified percentage of values fall, where the
percentile is calculated for data that is coded into groups. For example, with age data, if each
value in the 30s is coded 35, each value in the 40s is coded 45, and so on, the grouped percentile
is the percentile calculated from the coded data.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="groups_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Groups</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the groups of observations.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="groups" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Groups</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the fixed effects, random effects, and total effects.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="group_standard_deviations" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Group Standard Deviations</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The standard deviations of each variable calculated separately for each group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="growing_method" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Growing method</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The growing method used to create the tree model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="growth_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Growth Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Model whose equation is Y = e**(b0 + (b1 * t)) or ln(Y) = b0 + (b1 * t).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="guttman_split-half_coefficient" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Guttman Split-Half Coefficient</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure designed to answer the question: given two parts of a scale, how reliable
would the whole be if they were combined into one? It is similar to the Spearman-Brown coefficient,
but it does not assume equal reliabilities or equal variances for the two parts.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="half-normal_plot" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Half-Normal Plot</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Very similar to the normal probability plot except that both positive and negative
values are treated identically. If the population correlation matrix is an identity matrix, the plot
should be fairly linear and the line should pass through the origin.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="hamann" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Hamann</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Similarity measure for binary data. Gives the probability that a characteristic has the
same state in both items (present in both or absent from both) minus the probability that a
characteristic has different states in the two items (present in one and absent from the other). Has
a range of -1 to +1. Computed from a fourfold table as ((a+d)-(b+c))/(a+b+c+d) where a represents
the cell corresponding to cases present on both items, d the cell corresponding to cases absent on
both items, and b and c represent the diagonal cells of the table corresponding to cases present on
one item but absent on the other.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="hamann_similarity_measure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Hamann Similarity Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Similarity measure for binary data. Gives the probability that a characteristic has the
same state in both items (present in both or absent from both) minus the probability that a
characteristic has different states in the two items (present in one and absent from the other).
Computed from a fourfold table as ((a+d)-(b+c))/(a+b+c+d) where a represents cases present on both
items, d represents cases absent on both items, and b and c represent cases present on one item but
absent on the other.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="hampels_redescending_m-estimator" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Hampel's redescending M-estimator</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A three-part redescending M-estimator that is characterized by three constants (a,b,c).
Standardized observed values with an absolute value greater than c are assigned a weight of zero.
Values between 0 and a are assigned a weight of 1, while values between a and b and between b and c
are assigned weights that depend on their distance from zero.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="harmonic_mean_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">harmonic mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The reciprocal of the arithmetic mean of the reciprocals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="harmonic_mean" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Harmonic Mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Used to estimate an average group size when the sample sizes in the groups are not
equal. The harmonic mean is the total number of samples divided by the sum of the reciprocals of the
sample sizes.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="hartleys_f_max" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Hartley's F Max</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Homogeneity-of-variance test that is based on the ratio of the largest variance to the
smallest variance. It is sensitive to departures from normality. Also called Hartley's largest
F.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="hauck_anderson" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Hauck-Anderson</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Wald-based interval with a smaller continuity correction than classical adjusted intervals 
offset by sample-size adjustments in standard errors.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="hauck_anderson_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Hauck-Anderson</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Wald-based test using smaller continuity correction than classical adjusted test offset 
by sample size adjustments in standard errors.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="haverage" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Haverage</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The pth percentile is estimated using a weighted average around the (n+1)-st data
point.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="hazard_k-m" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Hazard</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cumulative hazard function estimate. The default variable name is the prefix haz_ with
a sequential number appended to it. For example, if haz_1 already exists, Kaplan-Meier assigns the
variable name haz_2.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="hazard_save" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Hazard Function</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Saves the cumulative hazard function estimate (also called the Cox-Snell
residual).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="hazard_plot" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Hazard Plot</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the cumulative hazard function on a linear scale.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="hazard_rate" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Hazard Rate</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An estimate of the risk of experiencing the terminal event during the interval,
conditional upon surviving to the start of the interval.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="def_heading" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Heading (output item type)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The item under the root item. By default, it is labeled by the procedure name. The user
can cut, copy, paste or delete a heading with all items under it, and can expand or collapse it. A
heading item exists only in the outline. The user can change its label text but cannot activate it
for further editing.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="helmert_contrast_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Helmert Contrast</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Compares the mean of each level of the factor (except the last) to the mean of
subsequent levels.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="helmert_contrasts" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Helmert Contrasts</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">In a Helmert contrast, the effect for each category of the predictor variable or factor
(except the last) is compared to the mean effect of subsequent categories.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="help" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Help</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Provides context-sensitive help for this dialog box.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="heterogeneous_1st_order_autoregressive" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Heterogeneous 1st Order Autoregressive</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This covariance structure has heterogeneous variances. The correlation between any two
elements is equal to rho for adjacent elements, rho^2 for two elements separated by a third, and so
on. Rho is constrained to lie between -1 and 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="heterogeneous_compound_symmetry" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Heterogeneous Compound Symmetry</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This covariance structure has heterogeneous variances and constant correlation between
elements.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="heterogeneous_toeplitz" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Heterogeneous Toeplitz</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This covariance structure has heterogeneous variances and heterogeneous correlations
between elements. The correlation between adjacent elements is homogenous across pairs of adjacent
elements. The correlation between elements separated by a third is again homogenous, and so on.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="hf_lambda" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">HF: lambda</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The covariance between any two elements of a Huynh-Feldt covariance matrix is equal to
the average of their variances minus this parameter.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="hidden_layer_rbf" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Hidden Layer (RBF)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The hidden layer contains unobservable network nodes (units). Each hidden unit is a
function of the inputs. The functions are the radial basis functions, and the values of the function
parameters (center and width) are determined by the estimation algorithm. </ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="hidden_layer" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Hidden Layers</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The hidden layer contains unobservable network nodes (units). Each hidden unit is a
function of the weighted sum of the inputs. The function is the activation function, and the values
of the weights are determined by the estimation algorithm. If the network contains a second hidden
layer, each hidden unit in the second layer is a function of the weighted sum of the units in the
first hidden layer. The same activation function is used in both layers.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="hidden_unit_variance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Hidden Unit Variance (RBF)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Each radial basis function has a center and width (variance). A separate center is
computed for each hidden unit for each input unit. A separate variance is computed for each hidden
unit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="hide_empty_rows_and_columns" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Hide Empty Rows and Columns</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Hides rows and columns that have nothing in any data cells.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="hierarchical" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Hierarchical</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Resembles the experimental approach, except that factor main effects are adjusted only
for the effect of the factors that precede them in the Factor(s) list.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="highest" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Highest</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Largest values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="highest_group" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Highest group</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Statistics concerning the most strongly predicted group membership for each case, based
on the discriminant function(s)</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="high-low-close_chart" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">High-Low-Close Chart</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays bars that represent two or three values for a sequence of categories. Simple
charts display a single high-low-close bar for each category, variable, or case on the category
axis. The classical use of these is to display daily or weekly high, low, and closing prices of a
commodity or security.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="histogram_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">histogram</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A histogram displays the distribution of a quantitative variable by showing the
relative concentration of data points along different intervals or sections of the scale on which
the data are measured.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="histogram" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Histogram</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Creates a histogram of the standardized residuals with a normal curve
superimposed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ghistogram" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Histogram</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A histogram displays the distribution of a quantitative variable by showing the
relative concentration of data points along different intervals or sections of the scale on which
the data are measured.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="histogram_s_with_normal_curve_frequencies" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Histogram(s) With Normal Curve (Frequencies)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A graphical display of the distribution of values. Histograms are appropriate for
continuous, quantitative variables (for example salary or age). Selecting With normal curve,
superimposes a normal curve onto the histogram.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="hochbergs_gt2_post_hoc" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Hochberg's GT2 (Post Hoc)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Multiple comparison and range test that uses the Studentized maximum modulus. Similar
to Tukey's honestly significant difference test.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="holdout_partition" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Holdout</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The holdout sample is an independent set of data records used to assess the final
model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="holts_linear_trend" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Holt's linear trend</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This model is appropriate for series in which there is a linear trend and no
seasonality. Its smoothing parameters are level and trend, which are not constrained by each other's
values. Holt's model is more general than Brown's model but may take longer to compute for large
series. Holt's exponential smoothing is most similar to an ARIMA model with zero orders of
autoregression, two orders of differencing, and two orders of moving average.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gexsmooth02" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Holt Model (Exponential Smoothing)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The Holt model assumes that the series has a linear trend and no seasonal
variation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="homogeneity" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Homogeneity</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This procedure allows you to examine the relationship between two or more unordered
categorical (nominal) variables graphically in a multidimensional scatterplot. Homogeneity analysis
is similar to correspondence analysis, but it allows you to examine more than two variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="homogeneity-of-variance_tests_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Homogeneity-of-Variance Tests</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Tests for violations of the equal variance assumption using the Levene Test.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="homogeneity-of-variance_tests" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Homogeneity-of-Variance Tests</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Tests that the groups defined by an independent grouping variable are taken from
populations with the same variance. The three tests produced are Hartley's F Max (maximum
variance/minimum variance), Cochran's C, and the Bartlett-Box F. All three require that the
dependent variable be normally distributed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="homogeneous_subsets" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Homogeneous Subsets</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Groups that have means which are not significantly different from one another based on
the specified multiple comparison procedure. The maximum number of subsets is 50.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="homoscedasticity" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Homoscedasticity</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Constant variance across time or among groups. Homoscedasticity is required for many
statistical methods.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="horizontal_icicle_plot" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Horizontal Icicle Plot</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A figure used to summarize the formation of clusters during a cluster analysis. Cases
form the rows of the display; steps form the columns. Cases joined vertically form clusters. This is
especially useful when there are a large number of cases, since a vertical icicle plot might not fit
across a single page.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="hosmer-lemeshow_goodness-of-fit_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Hosmer-Lemeshow goodness-of-fit statistic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This goodness-of-fit statistic is more robust than the traditional goodness-of-fit
statistic used in logistic regression, particularly for models with continuous covariates and
studies with small sample sizes. It is based on grouping cases into deciles of risk and comparing
the observed probability with the expected probability within each decile.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="hotellings_trace" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Hotelling's Trace</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A multivariate test of significance based on the sum of eigenvalues.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="hotellings_t_square" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Hotelling's T Square</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A multivariate test of the null hypothesis that all items on the scale have the same
mean.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="hubers_m-estimator_explore" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Huber's M-Estimator (Explore)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An M-estimator of location. Cases with standardized values less than c receive a weight
of 1. Those with larger absolute values have weights that decrease as their distance from zero
increases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="huynh-feldt" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Huynh-Feldt</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is a "circular" matrix in which the covariance between any two elements is equal
to the average of their variances minus a constant. Neither the variances nor the covariances are
restricted to be constant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="huynh-feldt_epsilon" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Huynh-Feldt Epsilon</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An adjustment to the numerator and denominator degrees of freedom that you may make if
the sphericity assumption in a repeated measures design appears to be violated. Numerator and
denominator degrees of freedom are multiplied by epsilon, and the adjusted degrees of freedom are
used in the computation of the observed significance level. The Huynh-Feldt epsilon is an attempt to
correct the Greenhouse-Geisser epsilon which tends to be overly conservative, especially for small
sample sizes.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="hypothesis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Hypothesis</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The effect being tested.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="hypothesiszed_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Hypothesized value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value against which the contrast estimate is tested.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="hypothesized_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Hypothesized Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value stipulated by the contrasts results matrix; the K in the LB=K equation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="icicle" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Icicle plot (Cluster)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This chart shows how cases are merged into clusters. At the bottom (right for
horizontal plots), no cases have been merged; as you read up the chart (or to the right-to-left for
horizontal plots), cases that are merged are indicated by an X or bar in the column between them,
whereas different cluster are indicated by a white space between them.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="id" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">ID</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The identification for a cluster.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="id_7" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">ID</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The case label given by the user-specified ID variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="id_8" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">ID</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Identifier used to number the simulation cases from the plan file. If it exists, this
is the value of the CARD_ variable for the simulation case; otherwise, it is the case number.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="id_diagonal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">ID: diagonal</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This parameter defines the diagonal entries of a Scaled Identity covariance
matrix.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ideal_point" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Ideal Point</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">For factors specified as quadratic, this is the factor level representing either the
maximum preference (IDEAL models) or minimum preference (ANTIIDEAL models). Distance from the ideal
point in either direction is associated with increased preference for ANTIIDEAL models and decreased
preference for IDEAL models.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="identifier" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Identifier</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The combination of variable values that uniquely identifies a case.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="identity_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Identity</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This structure has constant variance. There is assumed to be no correlation between any
elements.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="identity_matrix" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Identity Matrix</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A diagonal matrix whose elements on the main diagonal are all 1's. The dimension of the
identity matrix is the same as the number of dependent variables being studied.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="idf.beta_prob_shape1_shape2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">IDF.BETA(prob, shape1, shape2)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">IDF.BETA(prob, shape1, shape2). Numeric. Returns the value from the Beta distribution,
with the given shape parameters, for which the cumulative probability is prob.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="idf.cauchy_prob_loc_scale" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">IDF.CAUCHY(prob, loc, scale)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">IDF.CAUCHY(prob, loc, scale). Numeric. Returns the value from the Cauchy distribution,
with the given location and scale parameters, for which the cumulative probability is prob.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="idf.chisq_prob_df" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">IDF.CHISQ(prob, df)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">IDF.CHISQ(prob, df). Numeric. Returns the value from the chi-square distribution, with
the specified degrees of freedom df, for which the cumulative probability is prob. For example, the
chi-square value that is significant at the 0.05 level with 3 degrees of freedom is
IDF.CHISQ(0.95,3).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="idf.exp_p_scale" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">IDF.EXP(p, scale)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">IDF.EXP(p, scale). Numeric. Returns the value of an exponentially decaying variable,
with rate of decay scale, for which the cumulative probability is p.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="idf.f_prob_df1_df2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">IDF.F(prob, df1, df2)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">IDF.F(prob, df1, df2). Numeric. Returns the value from the F distribution, with the
specified degrees of freedom, for which the cumulative probability is prob. For example, the F value
that is significant at the 0.05 level with 3 and 100 degrees of freedom is IDF.F(0.95,3,100).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="idf.gamma_prob_shape_scale" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">IDF.GAMMA(prob, shape, scale)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">IDF.GAMMA(prob, shape, scale). Numeric. Returns the value from the Gamma distribution,
with the specified shape and scale parameters, for which the cumulative probability is prob.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="idf.halfnrm" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">IDF.HALFNRM</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">IDF.HALFNRM(prob, mean, stddev). Numeric. Returns the value from the half normal
distribution, with the specified mean and standard deviation, for which the cumulative probability
is prob.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="idf.igauss" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">IDF.IGAUSS</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">IDF.IGAUSS(prob, loc, scale). Numeric. Returns the value from the inverse Gaussian
distribution, with the given location and scale parameters, for which the cumulative probability is
prob.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="idf.laplace_prob_mean_scale" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">IDF.LAPLACE(prob, mean, scale)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">IDF.LAPLACE(prob, mean, scale). Numeric. Returns the value from the Laplace
distribution, with the specified mean and scale parameters, for which the cumulative probability is
prob.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="idf.lnormal_prob_a_b" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">IDF.LNORMAL(prob, a, b)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">IDF.LNORMAL(prob, a, b). Numeric. Returns the value from the log-normal distribution,
with specified parameters, for which the cumulative probability is prob.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="idf.logistic_prob_mean_scale" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">IDF.LOGISTIC(prob, mean, scale)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">IDF.LOGISTIC(prob, mean, scale). Numeric. Returns the value from the logistic
distribution, with specified mean and scale parameters, for which the cumulative probability is
prob.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="idf.normal_prob_mean_stddev" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">IDF.NORMAL(prob, mean, stddev)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">IDF.NORMAL(prob, mean, stddev). Numeric. Returns the value from the normal
distribution, with specified mean and standard deviation, for which the cumulative probability is
prob.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="idf.pareto_prob_threshold_shape" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">IDF.PARETO(prob, threshold, shape)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">IDF.PARETO(prob, threshold, shape). Numeric. Returns the value from the Pareto
distribution, with specified threshold and scale parameters, for which the cumulative probability is
prob.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="idf.smod" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">IDF.SMOD</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">IDF.SMOD(prob, a, b). Numeric. Returns the value from the Studentized maximum modulus,
with the specified parameters, for which the cumulative probability is prob.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="idf.srange" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">IDF.SRANGE</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">IDF.SRANGE(prob, a, b). Numeric. Returns the value from the Studentized range
statistic, with the specified parameters, for which the cumulative probability is prob.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="idf.t_prob_df" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">IDF.T(prob, df)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">IDF.T(prob, df). Numeric. Returns the value from Student's t distribution, with
specified degrees of freedom df, for which the cumulative probability is prob.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="idf.uniform_prob_min_max" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">IDF.UNIFORM(prob, min, max)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">IDF.UNIFORM(prob, min, max). Numeric. Returns the value from the uniform distribution
between min and max for which the cumulative probability is prob.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="idf.weibull_prob_a_b" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">IDF.WEIBULL(prob, a, b)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">IDF.WEIBULL(prob, a, b). Numeric. Returns the value from the Weibull distribution, with
specified parameters, for which the cumulative probability is prob.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="if_condition_is_satisfied" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">If Condition Is Satisfied</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Use a conditional expression to select cases. If the result of the conditional
expression is true, the case is selected. If the result is false or missing, the case is not
selected.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="image_factoring" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Image Factoring</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A factor extraction method developed by Guttman and based on image theory. The common
part of the variable, called the partial image, is defined as its linear regression on remaining
variables, rather than a function of hypothetical factors.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="importance_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Importance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Pratt's measure of relative importance. This measure defines the importance of
predictors additively, that is, the importance of a set of predictors is the sum of the individual
importances of the predictors. This measure also signals the presence of multicollinearity among the
predictors by a substantive negative importance value and the presence of a suppressor variable by a
low importance value while the regression coefficient is comparable to the coefficients of variables
deemed to be important.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="importance_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Importance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Importance is a measure of the relative contribution of each dimension to the
solution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="importance_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Importance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is a raw measure of the effect changes in this predictor have on the output.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="improvement_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Improvement</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The improvement value for a node equals the probability of a case in the node
multiplied by the decrease in impurity value for the node. (In CRT, the decrease in impurity is the
splitting criterion.)</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="improvement_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Improvement</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The difference between the normalized raw stress at the previous iteration and the
current.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="improvement" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Improvement</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Improvement in model fit due to the current step</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="imputation_sequence" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Imputation Sequence</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The order in which variables are imputed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="imputed_values_n" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Imputed Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The total number of values imputed by the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="imputed_values" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Imputed Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists any constraints placed on scale variables used as dependents during
imputation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="include_constant_in_equation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Include Constant in Equation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Usually the regression model contains a constant term. To suppress this term and obtain
regression through the origin, deselect this item.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="include_constant_in_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Include Constant in Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">By default, the model includes a constant term (intercept). To suppress the constant
term and obtain regression through the origin, deselect this item. The constant term is now
zero.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="included" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Included</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the number and percentage of cases included in this analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="inclusion_probability" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Inclusion Probability</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The proportion of units drawn at this stage.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="increase" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Increase</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The increase in variance accounted for by the model from the previous iteration to the
current.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="increase_in_r_square" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Increase in R square</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The difference in Multiple R Square between 2 consecutive iterations.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="increment_chart_axis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Increment (Chart Axis)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The interval at which points are labeled on a scale axis. It is possible to subdivide
the increment, in which case the larger interval is called the major increment and the smaller
interval the minor increment.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gacf05" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Independence Model (Autocorrelations)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Calculates standard error assuming that the underlying process is white noise.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="independent_s" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Independent(s)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The variables used to predict the value of the dependent variable. Also called
predictor variables or explanatory variables. This list must contain at least one variable to run
this procedure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="independents" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Independents</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The predictor variables or explanatory variables. You must select at least one
independent variable to run this procedure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="independent_samples" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Independent Samples</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Samples selected in such a way that there is no relationship between the members of the
samples. There is no pairing of observations between the samples.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="independent_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Independent Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The variable used to predict the value of the dependent variable. Also called predictor
variable or explanatory variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="independent_variable_s" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Independent Variable(s)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The variables used to predict the value of the dependent variable. Also called
predictor variables or explanatory variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="independent_variables" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Independent Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of independent variables specified by the user to define restrictions on the
common space.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="independent_variables_included" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Independent variables included</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Independent (predictor) variables included in final tree model. For many models, not
all independent variable specified are included in the final model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="index_tree" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Index</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Index is the ratio of the node response percentage for the target category compared to
the overall target category response percentage for the entire sample.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="index_haystack_needle_divisor" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">INDEX(haystack, needle,divisor)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">INDEX(haystack,needle[,divisor]). Numeric. Returns a number that indicates the byte
position of the first occurrence of needle in haystack. The optional third argument, divisor, is a
number of bytes used to divide needle into separate strings. Each substring is used for searching
and the function returns the first occurrence of any of the substrings. Divisor must be a positive
integer and must divide evenly into the length of needle. Returns 0 if needle does not occur within
haystack.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="index_haystack_needle" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">INDEX(haystack,needle)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">INDEX(haystack,needle). Numeric. Returns an integer that indicates the starting
position of the first occurrence of the string needle in the string haystack. Returns 0 if needle
does not occur within haystack. For example, INDEX(var1, 'b') returns a value of 2 for a case with a
value of 'abcd' for var1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="indicate_case_source_as_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Indicate Case Source as Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Indicates the source data file for each case. This variable has a value of 0 for cases
from the active dataset and a value of 1 for cases from the external data file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="indicator_contrasts" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Indicator Contrasts</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Contrasts indicate the presence or absence of category membership. This contrast is
equivalent to the traditional group of "dummy variables." Select either First or Last as the omitted
reference category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="indicator_variables" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Indicator Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variables which indicate the present and absence of a characteristic, usually denoted
by 1 and 0. For example, if red is an indicator variable then a value of 1 would indicate the object
is red and 0 would indicate the object is not red. Often called dummy variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="individual" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Individual</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lower and upper bounds (two variables) for the prediction interval of the dependent
variable for a single case.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gcontrol02" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Individuals and Moving Range Charts</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Plot individual measurements of a process rather than subgroup averages. Individual
charts plot each value in sequence. Moving range charts plots the range of values within a selected
span of cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="indvar_i" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Indvar(I)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the categories of the independent variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="inertia" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Inertia</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Measure of dispersion for each point, taking the marginal frequency into account.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="infinite_loop" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Infinite Loop</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">See "loop, infinite."</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="infinite_step_size" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Infinite Step Size</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">If the change in the parameters at a step is greater than the value specified as
infinite step size, the problem is considered unbounded, and estimation stops. Specify any positive
number.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="influence_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Influence variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The influence variable defines how much influence a case has on the tree-growing
process. Cases with lower influence values have less influence, cases with higher values have
more.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ginflpts" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Influential Points</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cases (such as outliers) that unduly affect the final coefficients of a model. If such
cases exist, it is prudent to identify them for individual inspection.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="initial_and_final_parameters_with_iteration_details" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Initial and final parameters with iteration details</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the initial and final parameter estimates, the parameter estimates after each
iteration, goodness-of-fit statistics, the number of iterations, and the reason that iteration
terminated.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="initial_and_final_parameters_with_iteration_summary" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Initial and final parameters with iteration summary</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the initial and final parameter estimates, goodness-of-fit statistics, the
number of iterations, and the reason that iteration terminated.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="initial_cluster_centers" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Initial Cluster Centers</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">First estimate of the variable means for each of the clusters. By default, a number of
well-spaced cases equal to the number of clusters is selected from the data. Initial cluster centers
are used for a first round of classification and are then updated.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="initial_communalities" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Initial communalities</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Communalities for the variables before extraction of factors (or components). For
principal components analyses, the values are the diagonal elements of the matrix to be analyzed
(correlation or covariance matrix); for factor analysis, they are the sums of squared loadings for
each variable using all other variables as predictors.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="initial_coordinates" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Initial Coordinates</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of user-provided initial coordinates.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="initial_eigenvalues" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Initial Eigenvalues</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Eigenvalues of the correlation or covariance matrix. These values are used to determine
which factors (or components) to keep in the solution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="initial_solution" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Initial Solution</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays initial communalities, eigenvalues, and the percentage of variance
explained.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="initial_value_of_autoregressive_parameter" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Initial value of autoregressive parameter</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value from which the iterative search for the optimal value of rho begins. You can
specify any number less than 1 and greater than -1, although negative values of rho are uncommon in
this procedure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="initial_values" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Initial Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Some of the more complex statistical techniques find parameter estimates via iterative
techniques, in which case the estimation algorithm requires initial values (or starting values) for
the parameter estimates.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="inner_join" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Inner Join</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A join used to link data from two tables, it only includes rows where the related
fields are equal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="innovational" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Innovational</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An outlier that acts as an addition to the noise term at a particular series point. For
stationary series, an innovational outlier affects several observations. For nonstationary series,
it may affect every observation starting at a particular series point.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="input_layer" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Input Layer</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The input layer contains the predictors.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="instrumental" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Instrumental</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">These are the variables used to compute the predicted values for the endogenous
variables in the first stage of two-stage least squares analysis. The same variables may appear in
both the Explanatory and Instrumental list boxes. The number of instrumental variables must be at
least as many as the number of explanatory variables. If all explanatory and instrumental variables
listed are the same, the results are the same as results from the Linear Regression procedure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="instrumental_variables" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Instrumental Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variables that are not influenced by other variables in the model but that do influence
those variables. To be effective, instrumental variables should be highly correlated with the
endogenous variables and not correlated with the error terms.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="valid_probit_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Instrumental Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Instruments are secondary predictors which are used to model the predictors. Estimates
from these models are then used in place of the actual predictors in order to model the dependent
variable. This process solves the problem of predictors correlated with the error term.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="interaction" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Interaction</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of the extent to which the variation in the dependent variable cannot be
considered to be the result of a simple combination of the main effects of the factors in the
analysis. In other words, it may be concluded that the effect of one variable varies across
categories or combinations of categories of other variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="intercept_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Intercept</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The overall mean.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="intercept_6" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Intercept</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the response variable when all the predictor variables equal 0.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="intercept" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Intercept</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the dependent variable when the independent variable equals 0 or, in other
words, when the regression line crosses the vertical axis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="intercept_multinomial_logistic_regression" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Intercept (multinomial logistic regression)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">In the usual linear regression, the intercept gives the value of the response variable
when all the predictor variables equal 0. In a multinomial logistic regression, the intercept for
category A gives the value of the logit for category A versus the baseline category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="intercept_probit" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Intercept (Probit)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A separate intercept is fit for each group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="intercept_only" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Intercept Only</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A model fit with just the intercept term. If the difference in the fitted and null
model -2 log likelihoods is large, then you can reject the hypothesis that all the parameter
coefficients are 0.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="inter-item_correlations" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Inter-Item Correlations</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Statistics based on the correlation of each pair of items.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="inter-item_covariances" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Inter-Item Covariances</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Statistics based on the covariance of each pair of items.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="internal_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Internal Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value used internally to represent a category when recoding a categorical
variable</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="interquartile_range_box_plotsdivexplore" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Interquartile Range (Box plots/Explore)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of the spread of the data. The distance between the third quartile (75th
percentile) and the first quartile (25th percentile) values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ginterval1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Interval Axis</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The axis from which the bars of a histogram originate. An interval axis differs from a
category axis because it represents a continuous range of values, rather than discrete
categories.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="interval_start_time" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Interval Start Time</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The time period that marks the beginning of the interval. An interval extends from the
start time up to, but not including, the start time of the next interval.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="interval_type" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Interval Type</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The method used to construct a confidence interval around a proportion or difference in proportions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gintervalvar" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Interval Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Quantitative variables measured on a numeric scale in which distances between the
points on the scale can be compared meaningfully. Interval variables have numeric values, rather
than coded values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="intervention_onsets" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">intervention onsets</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Indicates the presence of vertical reference lines at specified points along the time
axis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="intraclass_correlation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Intraclass Correlation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The measure of inter-rater reliability under the given model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="invalid" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Invalid</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cases not used in the analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="inverse_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Inverse Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Model whose equation is Y = b0 + (b1 / t).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="inverse_of_correlation_matrix_factor_analysis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Inverse of Correlation Matrix (Factor Analysis)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The inverse of the matrix of correlation coefficients.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="item_means" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Item Means</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Statistics based on the mean of each item.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="items" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Items</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The variables you have chosen to make up a scale in reliability analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="item_variances" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Item Variances</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Statistics based on the variance of each item.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="iteration_7" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Iteration</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The Total Fit and Difference in Total Fit Between Two Consecutive Iterations are
presented for each iteration of the estimation algorithm</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="iteration" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Iteration</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Repeated execution of the estimation algorithm.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="iteration_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Iteration</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Results are presented for each iteration of the estimation algorithm.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="iteration_difference" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Iteration Difference</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The difference in Total Fit between two consecutive iterations.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="iteration_number" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Iteration Number</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Dimension containing iteration number.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="iteration_number_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Iteration Number</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the major and minor iterations. The minor iteration determines the search
direction of the algorithm, and the major iteration finds the best parameter estimates in that
direction.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="jaccard_similarity_measure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Jaccard Similarity Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The similarity ratio for binary data. A matching coefficient for binary variables in
which joint absences are excluded from both the denominator and the numerator and equal weight is
given to matches and nonmatches. Computed from a fourfold table as a/(a+b+c) where a represents
cases present on both items, and b and c represent cases present on one item but absent on the
other.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="jeffreys" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Jeffreys</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A Bayesian-inspired interval also known as the equal-tailed Jeffreys prior interval. 
Can also be viewed as a continuity-corrected version of the Clopper-Pearson interval. A recommended 
method for sample sizes under 40.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="joint_inclusion_probabilities_file" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Joint Inclusion Probabilities File</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">In order to use Unequal WOR estimation for clusters drawn using a PPS WOR method, you
need to specify a separate file containing the joint probabilities. This file is created by the
Sampling Wizard during sampling.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="jonckheere-terpstra_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Jonckheere-Terpstra Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Tests whether k independent samples defined by a grouping variable are from the same
population. This test is appropriate for either continuous or ordered categorical data, and is more
powerful than the Kruskal-Wallis test when the k populations are at the ordinal level of
measurement.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="k_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">K</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The order of effects being tested.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="k" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">K</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The deviation of the process mean from the midpoint of the specification limits.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="kappa" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Kappa</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cohen's kappa measures the agreement between the evaluations of two raters when both
are rating the same object. A value of 1 indicates perfect agreement. A value of 0 indicates that
agreement is no better than chance. Kappa is based on a square table in which row and column values
represent the same scale. Any cell that has observed values for one variable but not the other is
assigned a count of 0. Kappa is not computed if the data storage type (string or numeric) is not the
same for the two variables. For string variable, both variables must have the same defined
length.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="kendalls_tau-b" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Kendall's tau-b</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A nonparametric measure of correlation for ordinal or ranked variables that take ties
into account. The sign of the coefficient indicates the direction of the relationship, and its
absolute value indicates the strength, with larger absolute values indicating stronger
relationships. Possible values range from -1 to 1, but a value of -1 or +1 can be obtained only from
square tables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="kendalls_tau-b_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Kendall's tau-b</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A nonparametric measure of association for ordinal or ranked variables that take ties
into account. The sign of the coefficient indicates the direction of the relationship, and its
absolute value indicates the strength, with larger absolute values indicating stronger
relationships. Possible values range from -1 to 1, but a value of -1 or +1 can be obtained only from
square tables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="kendalls_tau-c" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Kendall's tau-c</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A nonparametric measure of association for ordinal variables that ignores ties. The
sign of the coefficient indicates the direction of the relationship, and its absolute value
indicates the strength, with larger absolute values indicating stronger relationships. Possible
values range from -1 to 1, but a value of -1 or +1 can be obtained only from square tables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="kendalls_w" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Kendall's W</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A nonparametric test of the hypothesis that several related samples are from the same
population which measures the agreement of raters. Each case is a judge or rater and each variable
is an item or person being judged. For each variable, the sum of ranks is computed. Kendall's W
ranges between 0 (no agreement) and 1 (complete agreement).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="k_matrix" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">K matrix</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The K matrix is the contrast results matrix in the model equation LBM=K.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="k_matrix_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">K matrix</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The K matrix is the contrast results matrix. This matrix specifies the results of the
linear hypothesis in the equation LB=K. By default, K is a zero matrix.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="kmo_and_bartletts_test_of_sphericity_factor_analysis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">KMO and Bartlett's Test of Sphericity (Factor Analysis)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The Kaiser-Meyer-Olkin measure of sampling adequacy tests whether the partial
correlations among variables are small. Bartlett's test of sphericity tests whether the correlation
matrix is an identity matrix, which would indicate that the factor model is inappropriate.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="kolmogorov-smirnov" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Kolmogorov-Smirnov</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A test of normality based on the absolute value of the maximum difference between the
observed cumulative distribution and that expected based on the assumption of normality. The
Lilliefors correction is applied.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="kolmogorov-smirnov_lilliefors" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Kolmogorov-Smirnov (Lilliefors)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The Lilliefors test is a modification of the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test that tests for
normality when means and variances are not known, but must be estimated from the data. The
Kolmogorov-Smirnov test is based on the largest absolute difference between the observed and the
expected cumulative distributions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="kolmogorov-smirnov_one-sample_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Kolmogorov-Smirnov One-Sample Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Used to test the hypothesis that a sample comes from a particular distribution
(uniform, normal, or Poisson). The value of the Kolmogorov-Smirnov Z is based on the largest
absolute difference between the observed and the theoretical cumulative distributions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="kolmogorov-smirnov_z" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Kolmogorov-Smirnov Z</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A test of whether two samples (groups) come from the same distribution. It is sensitive
to any type of difference in the two distributions--shape, location, and so on. The test is based on
the largest difference between the two cumulative distributions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="kruskal-wallis_h" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Kruskal-Wallis H</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A nonparametric equivalent to one-way ANOVA. Tests whether several independent samples
are from the same population. Assumes that the underlying variable has a continuous distribution,
and requires an ordinal level of measurement.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="kulczynski_1_similarity_measure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Kulczynski 1 Similarity Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A matching coefficient similarity measure for binary data in which all matches are
excluded from the denominator, joint absences are excluded from the numerator, and equal weight is
given to matches and nonmatches. Computed from a fourfold table as a/(b+c) where a represents cases
present on both items, and b and c represent cases present on one item but absent on the other. Has
a minimum value of 0 and no upper limit. Undefined when b=0 and c=0.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="kulczynski_2_similarity_measure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Kulczynski 2 Similarity Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Similarity measure for binary data that yields the average conditional probability that
a characteristic is present in one item, given that the characteristic is present in the other item.
The measure is an average over both items acting as predictors. Computed from a fourfold table as
(a/(a+b)+a/(a+c))/2 where a represents cases present on both items, and b and c represent cases
present on one item but absent on the other. It has a range of 0 to 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="kurtosis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Kurtosis</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of the extent to which there are outliers. For a normal distribution, the
value of the kurtosis statistic is zero. Positive kurtosis indicates that the data exhibit more
extreme outliers than a normal distribution. Negative kurtosis indicates that the data exhibit less
extreme outliers than a normal distribution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="k-way_and_higher_order_effects" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">K-way and Higher Order Effects</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">These are tests of the significance of K-way and higher order model effects. A
significant (&lt; 0.05) result means that the effects cannot be explained by chance variation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="label" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Label</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Enter an optional descriptive variable label for the multiple response set. The label
can be up to 40 characters long.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="label_20" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Label</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value label for the specified level of a factor.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="label_13" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Label</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Value of the variable used to label cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="b_coefficient_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Label (Display)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Descriptive label for a variable or data value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="label_cases_by" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Label Cases by</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cases are identified by default by their sequence in the data file. Optionally, you can
label cases with their values for a variable, such as a case ID variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="label_cases_by_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Label Cases By</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">By default, cases are identified in output by case number. Optionally, you can use the
values of a string variable to identify cases. Select a string variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gaxis11" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Label Orientation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The angle and position of labels relative to the axis. Labels can be horizontal,
vertical, diagonal, or staggered.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="lack_of_fit_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Lack of Fit</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays results for variation due to lack of fit. This is the component of the error
sum of squares due to lack of fit. If the current model is appropriate, the sum of squares due to
lack of fit will be small.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="lag" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Lag</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Value of a previous case, based on the specified lag order. The Order is the number of
cases prior to the current case from which the value is obtained.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gacf09" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Lag (Autocorrelations)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A transformation that brings past values of a series into the current case. The case
prior to the current case is a lag of 1; two cases prior to the current case is a lag of 2; and so
on.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="lag_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">LAG(variable, n)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">LAG(variable[, n]). Numeric or string. The value of variable in the previous case or n
cases before. The optional second argument, n, must be a positive integer; the default is 1. For
example, prev4=LAG(gnp,4) returns the value of gnp for the fourth case before the current one. The
first four cases have system-missing values for prev4.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="lambda" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Lambda</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of association that reflects the proportional reduction in error when values
of the independent variable are used to predict values of the dependent variable. A value of 1 means
that the independent variable perfectly predicts the dependent variable. A value of 0 means that the
independent variable is no help in predicting the dependent variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cronbachs_alpha_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Lambda 1</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The first of Guttman's six measures of reliability that all give lower bounds for the
true reliability of the survey. The first is a simple estimate that is the basis for computing some
of the other lower bounds.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="lambda_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Lambda 2</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">L2 is always better, in the sense that it is larger than L3 or L1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="lambda_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Lambda 3</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">L3 is equivalent to Cronbach's Alpha.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="lambda_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Lambda 4</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">L4 is, in fact, the Guttman split-half coefficient. Moreover, it is a lower bound for
the true reliability for any split of the test. Therefore, Guttman suggests finding the split that
maximizes L4, comparing it to the other lower bounds, and choosing the largest.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="lambda_5" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Lambda 5</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">L5 is better than L2 when there is one item that has a high covariance with the other
items, which in turn do not have high covariances with each other. Such a situation may occur on a
test that has items that each pertain to one of several different fields of knowledge, plus one
question that can be answered with knowledge of any of those fields.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="lambda_6" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Lambda 6</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">L6 is better than L2 when the inter-item correlations are low compared to the squared
multiple correlation of each item when regressed on the remaining items. For example, consider a
test that covers many different fields of knowledge and each item covers some small subset of those
fields. Most item pairs will not have overlapping fields, but the fields of a single item should be
well represented given all the remaining items on the test.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="lambda_similarity_measure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Lambda Similarity Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Similarity measure for binary data due to Goodman and Kruskal. Assesses the
predictability of the state of a characteristic on one item (presence or absence) given the state on
the other item. Lambda measures the proportional reduction in error using one item to predict the
other, when the directions of prediction are of equal importance. Its range is 0 to 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="lance_and_williams_distance_measure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Lance and Williams Distance Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Also known as the Bray-Curtis nonmetric coefficient; a nonmetric dissimilarity measure
for binary data. Computed from a fourfold table as (b+c)/(2a+b+c) where a represents cases present
on both items, and b and c represent cases present on one item but absent on the other.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="last_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Last</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the last data value encountered in the data file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="last_value_aggregate_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Last Value (Aggregate Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the source variable for the last case in the break group. </ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="layer" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">layer</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">If rows give a table height and columns give it width, then layers give it depth.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="lcl" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">LCL</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lower confidence limit for the forecasted value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ldn_fit" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">LDN Fit</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The Total Fit of the model to the data. A larger value indicates a better fit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gaxis09" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Leading Character</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A character added to the beginning of all the labels on the scale axis. For example, a
leading character might be a dollar sign at the beginning of each label.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="least_significant_difference_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Least Significant Difference</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Uses t tests to perform all pairwise comparisons between group means. No adjustment is
made to the error rate for multiple comparisons.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="least_significant_difference_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Least Significant Difference</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Uses t tests to perform all pairwise comparisons between group means. No adjustment is
made to the error rate for multiple comparisons.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="leave-one-out_classification" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Leave-one-out Classification</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Each case in the analysis is classified by the functions derived from all cases other
than that case. It is also known as the "U-method."</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="left_alignment" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Left Alignment</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Left aligns data values in the column.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="left_outer_join" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Left Outer Join</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A join used to link data from two tables, it includes all records from 'Table 1' and
only those records from 'Table 2' where the related fields are equal. 'Table 1' is either the
Primary table, as defined in the original database, or the table from which you dragged the join
line.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="length_strexpr" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">LENGTH(strexpr)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">LENGTH(strexpr). Numeric. Returns the length of strexpr in bytes, which must be a
string expression. For string variables, in Unicode mode this is the number of bytes in each value,
excluding trailing blanks, but in code page mode this is the defined variable length, including
trailing blanks. To get the length (in bytes) without trailing blanks in code page mode, use
LENGTH(RTRIM(strexpr)). </ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="less_than_or_equal_to_the_median" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Less Than or Equal to the Median</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the number of observations that are less than or equal to the median.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="less_than_varvalue" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Less Than Varvalue</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays information about the observations that are less than the cut point
value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="level_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">level</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The values of a factor are referred to as levels of the factor, or factor levels.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="level_for_factor_a_b" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Level for Factor A or B</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">One of two factor levels that always occur together in the design; indicating that the
design is not orthogonal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="levels" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Levels</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Each allowed value of a factor variable is referred to as a level.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="level_shift" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Level shift</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An outlier that shifts all observations by a constant, starting at a particular series
point. A level shift could result from a change in policy.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="levenberg-marquardt" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Levenberg-Marquardt</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is the default algorithm for unconstrained models. The Levenberg-Marquardt method
is not available if you specify a constrained model, a user-defined loss function, or bootstrapping.
You can enter new values for Maximum iterations, and you can change the selection in the drop-down
lists for Sum-of-squares convergence and Parameter convergence.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="levene_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Levene Statistic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A homogeneity-of-variance test that is less dependent on the assumption of normality
than most tests. For each case, it computes the absolute difference between the value of that case
and its cell mean and performs a one-way analysis of variance on those differences.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="levene_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Levene Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A homogeneity-of-variance test that is less dependent on the assumption of normality
than most tests. For each case, it computes the absolute difference between the value of that case
and its cell mean and performs a one-way analysis of variance on those differences.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="leverage_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Leverage Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The relative influence of each observation on the model's fit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="leverage_values_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Leverage Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Uncentered leverage values. The relative influence of each observation on the model's
fit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="leverage_values" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Leverage Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Measures the influence of a point on the fit of the regression. The centered leverage
ranges from 0 (no influence on the fit) to (N-1)/N.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="lg10_numexpr" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">LG10(numexpr)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">LG10(numexpr). Numeric. Returns the base-10 logarithm of numexpr, which must be numeric
and greater than 0.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="likelihood_ratio" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Likelihood Ratio</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The likelihood ratio is a test statistic which uses the likelihood ratio criterion for
testing the null hypothesis. It is the ratio of the maximum value of the likelihood function under
the null hypothesis to the maximum value of the likelihood function when the null hypothesis is not
assumed. If the significance is small (say, less than 0.05), the null hypothesis is rejected.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="likelihood_ratio_chi-square" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Likelihood Ratio Chi-Square</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A test of independence based on the ratio between the observed and expected
frequencies.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="likelihood-ratio_chi-square" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Likelihood-Ratio Chi-Square</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A goodness-of-fit statistic similar to Pearson's chi-square. For large sample sizes,
the two statistics are equivalent. The advantage of the likelihood-ratio chi-square is that it can
be subdivided into interpretable parts that add up to the total. For general purposes, the
significance value is more important than the actual value of the statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="linear" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Linear</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Tests the linear effects across all levels.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="linear-by-linear_association_crosstabs" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Linear-by-Linear Association (Crosstabs)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of linear association between the row and column variables in a
crosstabulation. This statistic should not be used for nominal data. Also known as the
Mantel-Haenszel chi-square test. For general purposes, the significance value is more important than
the actual value of the statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="linear_constraint" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Linear Constraint</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">In constrained nonlinear regression problems, you can specify linear constraints on the
parameters. This is the value of the constraint function for the current estimates of the model
parameters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="glineareqn" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Linear Equation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A linear equation is one in which each term consists of a variable multiplied by a
constant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="linearity" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Linearity</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The part of the between groups SS which can be attributed to a linear relationship
between the dependent variable and the levels of the factor variable. The levels of the factor or
grouping variable must have an underlying order to use this statistic. For example, factor levels
may correspond to dosages of a drug, or number of cars owned, but not to car colors or
religions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="linear_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Linear Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Model whose equation is Y = b0 + (b1 * t). The series values are modeled as a linear
function of time.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="linear_regression_scatterplot_options" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Linear Regression (Scatterplot Options)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Produces a least-squares linear regression line that best fits the data points on the
scatterplot.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="linear_term" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Linear Term</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the results of the 1st-degree polynomial term. A 1st-degree polynomial term is
the term with a variable raised to the 1st power.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="exsm_tlin" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Linear Trend (Exponential Smoothing)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The mean level of the series increases or decreases linearly (at a constant rate) with
time.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="link_function_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Link Function</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The link function is a transformation of the dependent variable that allows estimation
of the model as a linear combination of the predictors.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="list_of_variables" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">List of Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The variables are grouped by set, and for each variable the label, number of
categories, and optimal scaling measurement level are displayed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="listwise_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">listwise</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">When computing a measure of association between two variables in a larger set, cases
are included in the computation only when all variables in the set have nonmissing values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="listwise" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Listwise</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the means, correlation matrix, and covariance matrix, omitting cases that have
missing values in any variable under consideration (listwise deletion).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="listwise_deletion" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Listwise Deletion</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cases that have missing values for any of the variables named are omitted from the
analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ljung-box_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Ljung-Box statistic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A lack-of-fit statistic used to test the null hypothesis that the model is correctly
specified. Also known as the modified Box-Pierce statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="l_matrix" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">L matrix</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The L matrix is the contrast coefficients matrix. This matrix specifies coefficients of
contrasts, which can be used for studying the effects in the model via the equation LB=K.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ln_numexpr" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">LN(numexpr)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">LN(numexpr). Numeric. Returns the base-e logarithm of numexpr, which must be numeric
and greater than 0.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="lngamma" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">LNGAMMA</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">LNGAMMA(numexpr). Numeric. Returns the logarithm of the complete Gamma function of
numexpr, which must be numeric and greater than 0.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="local_trend" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Local trend</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An outlier that starts a local trend at a particular series point.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="location" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">location</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The location parameter for the distribution. For instance, for the normal distribution
this is the parameter 'a' in NORMAL(a,b).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="def_log" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Log (output item type)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Journal recording the command(s) executed. It also displays the error message if an
error occurred and the procedure was not completed. It can be activated as a text object.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="logarithmic_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Logarithmic Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Model whose equation is Y = b0 + (b1 * ln(t)).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gseaslog" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Logarithmic Seasonal Adjustment</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The seasonal adjustments are added to the seasonally adjusted series in the logarithmic
scale. This involves different assumptions about the error term than the multiplicative model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="log_determinants" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Log Determinants</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">In the multigroup model, log determinant values provide an indication of which groups'
covariance matrices differ most. For each group, its determinant is the product of the eigenvalues
of its within group covariance matrix.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="logistic_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Logistic Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Model whose equation is Y = 1 / (1/u + (b0 * (b1**t))) or ln(1/y-1/u) = ln (b0) +
(ln(b1) * t) where u is the upper boundary value. After selecting Logistic, specify the upper
boundary value to use in the regression equation. The value must be a positive number that is
greater than the largest dependent variable value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="logit" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Logit</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A logit is simply the natural log of the odds ratio, p/(1-p).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="logit_model_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Logit Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Similar to the Bradley-Terry-Luce model but uses the natural log of the utilities
instead of the utilities.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="logit_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Logit Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Applies the logit (log odds) transformation to the response proportions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="logit_residual" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Logit Residual</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The residual for the case if it is predicted in the logit scale. The logit residual is
the residual divided by the predicted probability times 1 minus the predicted probability.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="logit_wald" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Logit</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Interval constructed by inverting a Wald interval for the log-odds. Coverage is usually 
good away from extremes, but often too wide.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="log_likelihood" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Log Likelihood</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of how well the model fits the data. The larger the value the better the
fit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="log-likelihood_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">log-likelihood</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The natural log of the likelihood function. It can be used as a rough measure of model
fit, where larger values indicate models that better fit the data. The log-likelihood tends to favor
overly complex models; the AIC and BIC are "corrections" to the log-likelihood.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="log-likelihood" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Log-Likelihood</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Natural logarithm (base e) of the likelihood function.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="log-likelihood_convergence" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Log-likelihood Convergence</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Convergence is assumed if the relative change in the log-likelihood function is less
than the specified value. The value must be positive.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="log-likelihood_function_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Log-likelihood Function Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the model's log-likelihood function for the estimated coefficients.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="loglinear_analysis_loglinear" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Loglinear Analysis (LOGLINEAR)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Technique which models the log of the frequency in a cell as a function of main effect
and interaction terms.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="log_minus_log" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Log Minus Log</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The cumulative survival estimate after the ln(-ln) transformation is applied to the
estimate.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="log_of_determinant_of" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Log of Determinant Of</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The natural logarithm of the determinant of a given matrix.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="log_rank" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Log Rank</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A test for comparing the equality of survival distributions. All time points are
weighted equally in this test.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="log_survival_plot" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Log Survival Plot</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the cumulative survival function on a logarithmic scale.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="log_transform" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Log Transform</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Many series are characterized by greater oscillations when series values are bigger in
magnitude than when they are smaller (a form of heteroscedasticity). A logarithmic transformation,
either to base e (the LN function) or base 10 (the LG10 function), will often make variation
constant across levels of the series.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="log_transformation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">log transformation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">In order to correct for non-normality, the natural logarithm can be applied to a
positive-valued variable. This technique is most effective when the non-normality is due to positive
skewness.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gacf01" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Log Transformation (base e)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Uses the natural (base e) logarithms of series values instead of the values themselves.
This transformation requires that all values be positive.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="log_transform_cannot_be_done" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Log transform cannot be done</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cases rejected because the value of a covariate is not a positive number.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="glongstringvar" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Long String Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A string variable of more than 8 bytes. The use of long string variables is restricted
in many procedures. </ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="loop_infinite" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Loop, Infinite</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">See infinite loop.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="loss_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Loss</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The loss is the amount of variance unaccounted for by the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="loss_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Loss</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Here, loss represents the proportion of variation that is not accounted for.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="loss_function_values_nonlin" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Loss Function Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This option is available if you specify your own loss function. The variable name loss_
is assigned to the values of the loss function.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="lost" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Lost</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">"Lost" cases are treated as censored for purposes of analysis. The designation allows
you to mark these cases as lost to follow-up analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="lower_strexpr" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">LOWER(strexpr)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">LOWER(strexpr). String. Returns strexpr with uppercase letters changed to lowercase and
other characters unchanged. The argument can be a string variable or a value. For example,
LOWER(name1) returns charles if the value of name1 is Charles.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="lower_bound" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Lower Bound</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The smallest value included in the confidence interval. Values less than the lower
bound fall outside the range of the confidence interval.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="lower_bound_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Lower Bound</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The smallest value included in the interval. Values less than the lower bound fall
outside the range of the interval.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="lowerbound_epsilon" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Lowerbound Epsilon</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The lowest possible value of epsilon. Epsilon is an adjustment to the numerator and
denominator degrees of freedom that you may make if the sphericity assumption appears to be violated
in a repeated measures design.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="lowess_scatterplot_options_fit_line" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Lowess (Scatterplot Options: Fit Line)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Uses an iterative locally weighted least-squares method to fit a curve to a set of
points. At least 13 data points are needed. You must specify the number of iterations and the
percentage of data points that must be fit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="lowest" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Lowest</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Smallest values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="lpad_strexpr_length" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">LPAD(strexpr,length)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">LPAD(strexpr,length). String. Returns the string strexpr padded on the left with blanks
to extend it to the length given by length, which must be a positive integer. </ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="lpad_strexpr_length_char" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">LPAD(strexpr1,length,strexpr2)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">LPAD(strexpr1,length[,strexpr2]). String. Left-pads strexpr1 to make its length the
value specified by length using as many complete copies as will fit of strexpr2 as the padding
string. The value of length represents the number of bytes and must be a positive integer. If the
optional argument strexpr2 is omitted, the value is padded with blank spaces.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="least_significant_difference" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">LSD (Least Significant Difference)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Uses t tests to perform all pairwise comparisons between group means. No adjustment is
made to the error rate for multiple comparisons.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="lsl" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">LSL</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The fixed lower control limit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ltrim_strexpr_char" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">LTRIM(strexpr,char)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">LTRIM(strexpr[,char]). String. Returns strexpr with any leading instances of char
removed. If char is not specified, leading blanks are removed. Char must resolve to a single
character.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ltrim_strexpr" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">LTRIM(strexpr)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">LTRIM(strexpr). String. Returns the string strexpr trimmed of any leading blanks.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mean_absolute_error_mae" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">MAE</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Mean absolute error. Measures how much the series varies from its model-predicted
level. MAE is reported in the original series units.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="magnitude" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Magnitude</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The maximum deviation from the true series value caused by a transient outlier.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mahalanobis_distance_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mahalanobis' Distance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of how much a case's values on the independent variables differ from the
average of all cases. For a single independent variable, it is simply the square of the standardized
value of the independent variable. A large Mahalanobis distance identifies a case as having extreme
values on one or more of the independent variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mahalanobis_distance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mahalanobis Distance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of how much a case's values on the independent variables differ from the
average of all cases. A large Mahalanobis distance identifies a case as having extreme values on one
or more of the independent variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mahalanobis_distance_squared" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mahalanobis Distance Squared</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cases with large values of Mahalanobis distance from their group mean can be identified
as outliers.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="main_effects" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Main Effects</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A component of the total variation in the dependent variable that can be attributed to
a single independent variable or factor. In general, the greater the differences between the group
means of the factor and its overall mean, the greater the main effect of the variable. The
usefulness of a main effect test of significance depends on whether it is involved in significant
interaction effects with other variables. If there is no significant interaction, the main effects
are of interest.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="main_effects_with_covariates" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Main Effects with Covariates</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays ANOVA table information for the main effects and the covariates.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gaxis03" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Major Increment</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The size of the labeled intervals. The major increment must be a value that is evenly
divisible into the scale range. The major scale increment determines the position of axis labels,
major tick marks, and major grid lines for the scale axis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mallows_conditional_mse_of_prediction_cp" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mallow's Conditional MSE of Prediction (Cp)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A criterion for model selection. It measures the standardized total mean squared error
of prediction for the observed data.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mann-whitney_u" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mann-Whitney U</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A nonparametric equivalent to the t test. Tests whether two independent samples are
from the same population. It is more powerful than the median test since it uses the ranks of the
cases. Requires an ordinal level of measurement. U is the number of times a value in the first group
precedes a value in the second group, when values are sorted in ascending order.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mantel-haenszel_estimate" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mantel-Haenszel estimate</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Estimates pertaining to the Mantel-Haenszel common odds ratio. The common odds ratio
assumes that the odds ratios across covariate patterns are equal, or homogenous.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mantel-haenszel_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mantel-Haenszel statistic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Mantel-Haenszel's statistic is similar to Cochran's, but makes corrections for small
sample sizes. Note that the two statistics are NOT necessarily equivalent for large samples!</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mean_absolute_percentage_error_mape" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">MAPE</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Mean Absolute Percentage Error. A measure of how much a dependent series varies from
its model-predicted level. It is independent of the units used and can therefore be used to compare
series with different units.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="marginal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Marginal</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The marginal cell counts or cell proportions, as well as the correlation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="marginal_frequency" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Marginal Frequency</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of objects that fall into a given category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="marginal_homogeneity_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Marginal Homogeneity Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A nonparametric test for two related ordinal variables. This test is an extension of
the McNemar test from binary response to multinomial response. It tests for changes in responses
using the chi-square distribution. It is useful for detecting changes in responses due to
experimental intervention in before-and-after designs.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="marginal_percentage" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Marginal Percentage</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of cases in each group</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="marker_position_subscript" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Marker Position Subscript</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays footnote markers aligned slightly below the text in a cell.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="marker_position_superscript" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Marker Position Superscript</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays footnote markers aligned slightly above the text in a cell.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="marquardt_constant" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Marquardt Constant</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The Marquardt constant controls how an algorithm determines step size at each
iteration. When the constant is large, the step size is near what would be suggested by the method
of steepest descent (it suggests a big step size). When the constant approaches 0, the step size
approaches the Inverse Hessian method (it suggests a small step size, or "slows down" near the
target in order to find the best estimates).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mass" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mass</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The proportion of the margin for each category of the total over all cells of the
correspondence table.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="matched_pairs" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Matched Pairs</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The total number of matched pairs.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="matrix_file" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Matrix File</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A data file created by the OUTFILE subcommand. The matrix file contains a covariance or
correlation matrix of the parameter estimates in the model. This file can be used in other
procedures that call for a matrix file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="matrix_input" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Matrix Input</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Indicates that a distance (proximities) matrix was read in directly, and no new
distances were computed. This is usually done if you want to apply transformations to previously
calculated distances.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mauchly_sphericity_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mauchly Sphericity Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A test of the hypothesis that the covariance matrix of the transformed variables has a
constant variance on the diagonal and zeros off the diagonal. For sufficiently large sample sizes, a
nonsignificant p value means there is insufficient evidence to reject the sphericity assumption. The
test is not very powerful for small samples. For large samples the test may be significant even when
the impact of the departure on the analysis-of-variance results may be small.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="max_value_value_.." xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">MAX(value,value[,..])</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">MAX(value,value[,..]). Numeric or string. Returns the maximum value of its arguments
that have valid values. This function requires two or more arguments. For numeric values, you can
specify a minimum number of valid arguments for this function to be evaluated.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="maximum_absolute_error_maxae" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">MaxAE</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Maximum Absolute Error. The largest forecasted error, expressed in the same units as
the dependent series. Like MaxAPE, it is useful for imagining the worst-case scenario for your
forecasts. Maximum absolute error and maximum absolute percentage error may occur at different
series points--for example, when the absolute error for a large series value is slightly larger than
the absolute error for a small series value. In that case, the maximum absolute error will occur at
the larger series value and the maximum absolute percentage error will occur at the smaller series
value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="maximum_absolute_percentage_error_maxape" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">MaxAPE</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Maximum Absolute Percentage Error. The largest forecasted error, expressed as a
percentage. This measure is useful for imagining a worst-case scenario for your forecasts.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="maximizing_the_smallest_f_ratio_method_of_entry" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Maximizing the Smallest F Ratio Method of Entry</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A method of variable selection in stepwise analysis based on maximizing an F ratio
computed from the Mahalanobis distance between groups.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="maximum_43" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">maximum</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The upper bound 'b' for a uniform distribution of the form UNIFORM(a,b).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="maximum_46" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Maximum</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The maximum value across all estimated models.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="maximum" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Maximum</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The largest value of a numeric variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="maximum_div_minimum" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Maximum / Minimum</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The ratio of the maximum value to the minimum value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="maximum_and_minimum" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Maximum and Minimum</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Enter the maximum and minimum integer values for the selected variable in the Factor
list.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="maximum_and_minimum_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Maximum and Minimum</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Enter values for Minimum and Maximum that correspond to the lowest and highest
categories of the grouping variable. Both values must be integers, and cases with values outside the
bounds are excluded. Minimum must be less than Maximum.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="maximum_iterations_15" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Maximum iterations</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The maximum number of iterations the estimation algorithm would perform.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="maximum_iterations_7" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Maximum iterations</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The iterative algorithm stops after the number of specified iterations even if the
algorithm has not converged. You can specify a positive integer in this text box.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="maximum_iterations_levenberg-marquardt_algorithm" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Maximum Iterations (Levenberg-Marquardt Algorithm)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The maximum number of iterations allowed, in the Levenberg-Marquardt Algorithm.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="maximum_iterations_for_convergence_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Maximum Iterations for Convergence</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">By default, a maximum of 25 iterations is performed for factor rotation. To specify a
different maximum, enter a positive integer.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="maximum_iterations_for_convergence" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Maximum Iterations for Convergence</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">By default, a maximum of 25 iterations is performed for factor extraction. To specify a
different maximum, enter a positive integer.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="maximum_likelihood" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Maximum Likelihood</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Maximum-likelihood methods attempt to estimate the values of the parameters that would
result in the highest likelihood of observing the data actually observed. These methods often
require iterative solutions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="maximum-likelihood_method" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Maximum-Likelihood Method</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A factor extraction method that produces parameter estimates that are most likely to
have produced the observed correlation matrix if the sample is from a multivariate normal
distribution. The correlations are weighted by the inverse of the uniqueness of the variables, and
an iterative algorithm is employed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="maximum_mos_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Maximum MOS Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An optional value that sets an upper bound on the MOS, overriding any values found in
the MOS variable or computed from the data.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="maximum_number_of_lags" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Maximum Number of Lags</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies the maximum number of lags plotted.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="maximum_number_of_units_sampled" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Maximum Number of Units Sampled</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An optional value that sets an upper bound on the number of units sampled when the
proportion of units to sample is specified.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="maximum_possible" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Maximum Possible</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">When there are tied observations, the Wald-Wolfowitz runs test calculates both the
maximum number of possible runs, and the minimum possible.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="maximum_tree_depth" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Maximum tree depth</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The maximum number of levels below the root node specified for the model. For CHAID
methods, the default is 3. For CRT and QUEST, the default is 5.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="maximum_utility_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Maximum Utility Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Determines the probability as the number of respondents predicted to choose the profile
divided by the total number of respondents. For each respondent, the predicted choice is simply the
profile with the largest total utility.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="maximum_value_aggregate_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Maximum Value (Aggregate Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The largest value of the source variable for all cases in the break group. </ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gbar14" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Maximum Value (Graph Summary Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The largest value for the category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mblen.byte_strexpr_pos" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">MBLEN.BYTE(strexpr,pos)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">MBLEN.BYTE(strexpr,pos). Numeric. Returns the number of bytes in the character at byte
position pos of strexpr.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mca" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">MCA</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Multiple Classification Analysis. A table containing means for each factor level
expressed as deviations from the grand mean. MCA allows you to assess the magnitude of the effect of
each category of a factor. Available only if the Hierarchical or Experimental method is used.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mcfadden_r-square" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">McFadden R-square</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The McFadden R-square is a generalized coefficient of determination, used to estimate
the proportion of variance in the dependent variable which is explained by the predictor
(independent) variables. The McFadden R-square is based on the log likelihood for the model compared
to the log likelihood for a baseline model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mcnemar_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">McNemar Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A nonparametric test for two related dichotomous variables. Tests for changes in
responses using the chi-square distribution. Useful for detecting changes in responses due to
experimental intervention in "before-and-after" designs. For larger square tables, the
McNemar-Bowker test of symmetry is reported.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mcnemar_z_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">McNemar</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Classical McNemar asymptotic Z test, which uses standard error under the null 
hypothesis. Generally close to assumed alpha level and a recommended test.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mcnemar_z_test_cont" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">McNemar (Continuity Corrected)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Classical continuity-corrected McNemar Z test. Conservative.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mean_mi" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The mean value of the valid cases is reported for scale variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mean_25" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The mean normalized raw stress across objects or sources.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mean_26" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The result of summing the ratios and dividing the result by the total number of
ratios.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mean_5" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The observed mean is the cut point that assigns cases with values less than the cut
point to one group and cases with values greater than or equal to the other group. You must select
at least one cut point, and one test is performed for each cut point chosen.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mean_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lower and upper bounds (two variables) for the prediction interval of the mean
predicted response.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mean" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of central tendency. The arithmetic average, the sum divided by the number of
cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mean_29" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of central tendency that represents the arithmetic average value of the
variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mean_spchart" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The process mean.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mean_aggregate_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mean (Aggregate Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The arithmetic average of the source variable for all cases in the break group. </ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mean_cox_regression_plots" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mean (cox regression plots)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The mean for each variable in the model</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mean_numexpr_numexpr_.." xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">MEAN(numexpr,numexpr[,..])</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">MEAN(numexpr,numexpr[,..]). Numeric. Returns the arithmetic mean of its arguments that
have valid, nonmissing values. This function requires two or more arguments, which must be numeric.
You can specify a minimum number of valid arguments for this function to be evaluated.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mean_centered" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mean Centered</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The statistic is computed using the mean as the measure of location and the standard
deviation as the measure of variation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mean_cross-product" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mean Cross-Product</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Equivalent to covariance, except the means are assumed to be 0, since regression is
performed through the origin.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mean_difference" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mean Difference</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The population mean(s) under testing. When a single value is specified, it denotes the population
 mean difference μ<sub>d</sub>.  When two values are specified, they will denote μ<sub>1</sub> and μ<sub>2</sub>, respectively.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mean_difference_i-j_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mean Difference (I-J)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the difference in the observed means for the level specified by I minus
the level specified by J.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mean_difference_i-j" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mean Difference (I-J)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The mean for one group minus the mean for the other group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mean_jonckheere-terpstra_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mean Jonckheere-Terpstra Statistic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The mean, or expected value of the Jonckheere-Terpstra statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mean_marginal_homogeneity_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mean Marginal Homogeneity statistic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The mean, or expected value of the marginal homogeneity statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gbar06" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mean of Values (Graph Summary Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The arithmetic average for the category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mean_probability" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mean Probability</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The mean probability that the target value falls in a given category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mean_rank" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mean Rank</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The sum of ranks divided by the number of cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mean_rank_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mean Rank</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Average rank assigned to tied values. For example, in the sequence 10, 15, 15, 15, 16,
all cases with the value 15 would receive a rank of 3.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="means_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Means</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Summary statistics for item means. The smallest, largest, and average item means, the
range and variance of item means, and the ratio of the largest to the smallest item means are
displayed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="means" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Means</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays total and group means, as well as standard deviations for the independent
variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="means_and_counts" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Means and Counts</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Requests the means and frequency counts for each cell. Available only if the
Hierarchical or Experimental method is used.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="means_and_standard_deviations" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Means and Standard Deviations</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the mean, standard deviation, and number of nonmissing cases for each
variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mean_score" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mean Score</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The survival time for each case in each group is compared to the survival times for all
cases in the other groups. Roughly speaking, a case's individual score is increased for each
comparison in which it has the higher survival time and decreased when it has the lower survival
time. The mean score for a group is the average of the individual scores for cases in the
group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mean_square" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mean Square</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The sum of squares divided by the degrees of freedom.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="measure_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Measure names for a doubly multivariate repeated measures design. In this design, more
than one type of measurement was made on each subject, repeatedly.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="measurement" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Measurement</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Labels the repeated measurements taken for each subject.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="measurement_level_file_information" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Measurement Level (file information)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Measurement level can be nominal, ordinal, or scale.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="measure_of_size" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Measure of Size</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">If units are selected with unequal probability, you need a measure of size (MOS) that
defines the size of each unit. These sizes can be explicitly defined in a variable or computed from
the data.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="measure_used" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">measure used</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Indicates the distance measure used.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="median_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Median</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Produces a contingency table that indicates, for each group, the number of cases with
values greater than the observed median and less than or equal to the median. A chi-square statistic
for the table is computed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="median_6" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Median</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value such that number of ratios less than this value and the number of ratios
greater than this value are the same.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="median" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Median</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value above and below which half of the cases fall, the 50th percentile. If there
is an even number of cases, the median is the average of the two middle cases when they are sorted
in ascending or descending order. The median is a measure of central tendency not sensitive to
outlying values (unlike the mean, which can be affected by a few extremely high or low values).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="median_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Median</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The observed median is the cut point that assigns cases with values less than the cut
point to one group and cases with values greater than or equal to the other group. You must select
at least one cut point, and one test is performed for each cut point chosen.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="median_numexpr_numexpr_.." xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">MEDIAN(numexpr,numexpr[,..])</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">MEDIAN(numexpr,numexpr[,..]). Numeric. Returns the median (50th percentile) of its
arguments that have valid, nonmissing values. This function requires two or more arguments, which
must be numeric. You can specify a minimum number of valid arguments for this function to be
evaluated.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="median_centered" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Median Centered</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The statistic is computed using the median as the measure of location and the root mean
squares of deviation from the median as the measure of variation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gbar07" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Median of Values (Graph Summary Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value below which half the cases fall.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="median_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Median Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Tests whether two or more independent samples are drawn from populations with the same
median using the chi-square statistic. Should not be used if any cell has an expected frequency less
than 1, or if more than 20% of the cells have expected frequencies less than 5.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mersenne_twister" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mersenne Twister</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A newer random number generator that is more reliable for simulation purposes. If
reproducing randomized results from version 12 or earlier is not an issue, use this random number
generator.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="m-estimators" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">M-Estimators</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Robust maximum-likelihood estimators of central tendency that differ in the weights
they apply to the cases. Extreme values receive less weight than values closer to the center. When
the data are from a symmetric distribution with long tails, or when the data have extreme values,
M-estimators provide better estimates of the location than do the mean or median. The four
estimators are Huber's M-estimator, Andrews' wave estimator, Hampel's redescending M-estimator, and
Tukey's biweight estimator.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="method" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Method</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to select the method independent variables are entered into the analysis.
Allows you to construct a variety of regression models from the same set of variables. To obtain
Help on a specific method, select the method and then click the right mouse button.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="method_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Method</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the available extraction methods. Choose one of the methods.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="method_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Method</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to select optional methods for stepwise analysis, to control variable entry
and removal criteria, and to display summary statistics. Use stepwise method must be selected to
choose this option.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="method_7" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Method</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the variable selection method used at each step.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="method_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Method</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to select an alternate clustering method or distance measure, or to
transform values or measures.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="methods" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Methods</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the methods for calculating the percentiles.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="method_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Method Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variable selection method based on R-squared and its significance for sets of
independent variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="metric" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Metric</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The interval or ratio scale on which factor levels are measured.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mid_p" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mid-p</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Adjustment to exact binomial conditional probability that assigns only half of the point 
probability observed to the tail, resulting in smaller probability values. Remains somewhat conservative, 
but still a recommended test.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mid_p_binomial" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mid-p Adjusted Binomial</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Adjustment to exact probability that includes only half of the point probability for the
exact outcome observed to the tail, resulting in smaller probability value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="min_value_value_.." xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">MIN(value,value[,..])</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">MIN(value,value[,..]). Numeric or string. Returns the minimum value of its arguments
that have valid, nonmissing values. This function requires two or more arguments. For numeric
values, you can specify a minimum number of valid arguments for this function to be evaluated.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="minimize_wilks_lambda" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Minimize Wilks' Lambda</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A variable selection method for stepwise discriminant analysis that chooses variables
for entry into the equation on the basis of how much they lower Wilks' lambda. At each step, the
variable that minimizes the overall Wilks' lambda is entered.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="minimum_17" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">minimum</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The lower bound 'a' for a uniform distribution of the form UNIFORM(a,b).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="minimum" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Minimum</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The smallest value of a numeric variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="minimum_18" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Minimum</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The minimum value across all estimated models.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="minimum_cases_in_node" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Minimum cases in node</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The minimum number of cases for a node specified for the model. Nodes with less than
the minimum will not be split.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="minimum_expected_cell_frequency" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Minimum Expected Cell Frequency</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The smallest number of cases in a cell that would be expected to occur if the null
hypothesis is true. If any cell has an expected frequency less than 1, or if more than 20% of the
cells have expected frequencies less than 5, the significance level of the chi-square statistic may
not be accurate. Consider combining similar categories to obtain a table with fewer cells.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="minimum_mos_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Minimum MOS Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An optional value that sets a lower bound on the MOS, overriding any values found in
the MOS variable or computed from the data.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="minimum_number_of_units_sampled" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Minimum Number of Units Sampled</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An optional value that sets a lower bound on the number of units sampled when the
proportion of units to sample is specified.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="minimum_possible" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Minimum Possible</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">When there are tied observations, the Wald-Wolfowitz runs test calculates both the
minimum number of possible runs, and the maximum possible.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="minimum_tolerance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Minimum Tolerance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The minimum tolerance of all independent variables already in the model if an
independent variable not in the equation is included.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="minimum_value_aggregate_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Minimum Value (Aggregate Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The smallest value of the source variable for all cases in the break group. </ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gbar13" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Minimum Value (Graph Summary Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The smallest value within the category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="minkowski_distance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Minkowski distance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Dissimilarity measure for continuous data, in an absolute Minkowski power metric. The
distance between two items is the pth root of the sum of the absolute differences raised to the pth
power between the values for the items.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="minkowski_distance_measure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Minkowski Distance Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Dissimilarity measure for continuous data, in an absolute Minkowski power metric. The
distance between two items is the pth root of the sum of the absolute differences raised to the pth
power between the values for the items. Select a power from the drop-down list; the same value will
be used as the root.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gaxis06" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Minor Increment</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allow you to divide the area between major increments. The minor increment must be
evenly divisible into the major increment. The minor scale increment determines the position of
minor tick marks and minor grid lines.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="missing_18" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Missing</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Multiple response analysis considers cases with no responses to any items in a multiple
response set to be missing.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="missing_12" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Missing</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of missing values. System-missing values and values outside the range
defined by you are considered as missing.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="missing" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Missing</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Values that are system-missing or user-missing.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="missing_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">MISSING(variable)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">MISSING(variable). Logical. Returns 1 or true if variable has a system- or user-missing
value. The argument should be a variable name in the active dataset.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="missing_number_of_cases_aggregate_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Missing Number of Cases (Aggregate Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases in the break group that have missing data for the source
variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="missing_observations" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Missing Observations</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Observations with values that either have been defined as user-missing values or are
unknown and have been assigned the system-missing value, which is indicated with a period (.).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="missing_or_out-of-range" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Missing or out-of-range</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Indicates the number of cases where both of the group codes are missing or
out-of-range.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="missing_proximities" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Missing Proximities</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of missing proximities.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="missing_values_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">missing values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Missing values include user-missing, system-missing, and, in the case of log
transformed data, values that are zero or negative. Cases with missing values are excluded from the
analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="missing_values_possible" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Missing Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of possible values for the model to impute.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="missing_values_file_information" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Missing Values (file information)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">User-missing defined missing values (if any)</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="missing_weights" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Missing Weights</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of proximities with missing weights.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="missing_within_the_set" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Missing within the set</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of objects (cases) that have missing values on the variables within the
set.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mixed-effect_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mixed-Effect Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An analysis in which some of the independent variables (factors) are considered fixed
and others random.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mixed_effects_models" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mixed Effects Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A mixed effects model has one or more fixed effects and one or more random effects.
Since the intercept is usually treated as a fixed effect, a model including the intercept and one or
more random factors is a mixed effects model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="m_matrix" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">M matrix</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The M matrix is the transformation coefficients matrix, used to transform the dependent
variable(s). This transformation can be used to construct contrasts among the dependent variables in
the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mod_numexpr_modulus" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">MOD(numexpr,modulus)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">MOD(numexpr,modulus). Numeric. Returns the remainder when numexpr is divided by
modulus. Both arguments must be numeric, and modulus must not be 0.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mode" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mode</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The most frequently occurring value. If several values share the greatest frequency of
occurrence, each of them is a mode.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mode_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mode</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The observed mode is the cut point that assigns cases with values less than the cut
point to one group and cases with values greater than or equal to the other group. You must select
at least one cut point, and one test is performed for each cut point chosen.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="mode_frequencies" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mode (Frequencies)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The most frequently occurring value. If several values share the greatest frequency of
occurrence, each of them is a mode. The Frequencies procedure reports only the smallest of such
multiple modes.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="model_20" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The dispersion associated with the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="model_mi" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Shows the univariate model type and list of effects, including interactions, used to
impute the values for each variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="model_23" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Statistics computed for the model as a whole.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="model_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the statistical information for each model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="model_effect" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Model Effect</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The variation in the dependent variable explained by the model, which passes through
the origin.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="model_entropy" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Model Entropy</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of the predictive accuracy of the binning input variable with respect to the
guide variable. Smaller values of model entropy indicate greater predictive accuracy.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="model_fit" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Model Fit</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Provides multiple R, R-squared, adjusted R-squared, and the standard error. Also, an
ANOVA table displays degrees of freedom, sums of squares, mean squares, F value, and the observed
probability of F.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="model_fitting_criterion" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Model Fitting Criterion</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Statistics that are measures of how well the model fits the data. You can use them as a
basis of comparison for two different models.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="model_handle_name" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Model Handle Name</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The model handle name that identifies this model. This is the name assigned to this
model on the associated MODEL HANDLE command.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="model_id" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Model ID</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Model identifier. By default, it consists of two components: the dependent variable
being modeled, and an autogenerated name consisting of a prefix (default of 'Model') followed by an
integer suffix.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="model_name" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Model Name</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The session-unique name that identifies this model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="model_statistics" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Model statistics</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Statistics for the specified model</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="model_summary" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Model Summary</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This table displays information about variables added and removed from the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="model_type" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Model Type</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The type of predictive model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="model_type_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Model Type</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">For exponential smoothing models, this is the name of the model, such as Holt or
Winters' Additive. Non-seasonal ARIMA models are given by ARIMA(p,d,q) where p is the order of
autoregression, d is the order of differencing, and q is the moving-average order. Seasonal ARIMA
models are given by ARIMA(p,d,q)(P,D,Q) where P, D, and Q are the seasonal autoregression,
differencing, and moving-average orders respectively.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gbar08" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Mode of Values (Graph Summary Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The most frequently occurring value within the category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="monte_carlo_estimate" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Monte Carlo Estimate</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An unbiased estimate of the exact significance level, calculated by repeatedly sampling
from a reference set of tables with the same dimensions and row and column margins as the observed
table. The Monte Carlo method allows you to estimate exact significance without relying on the
assumptions required for the asymptotic method. This method is most useful when the data set is too
large to compute exact significance, but the data do not meet the assumptions of the asymptotic
method.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="moses_extreme_reactions" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Moses Extreme Reactions</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A nonparametric test designed to test hypotheses in which it is expected that the
experimental variable will affect some subjects in one direction and other subjects in the opposite
direction. Tests for extreme responses compared to the control group. Requires an ordinal scale of
measurement. This test focuses on the span of the control group, and is a measure of how much
extreme values in the experimental group influence the span when combined with the control
group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="most_extreme_differences_kolmogorov-smirnov" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Most Extreme Differences (KOLMOGOROV-SMIRNOV)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The largest differences between two cumulative distribution functions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="most_popular_category" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Most Popular Category</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The category to which most cases in the peer group belong.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="moveit_button" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Moveit Button</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Moves selected variables from one list to another. Available only when a pair of
variables has been selected.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="moving_average_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Moving Average (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">q is the order of moving average of the process. Specify a non-negative integer. Enter
0 for an autoregressive process, 1 for a first-order moving average, 2 for a second-order moving
average, and so on.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="moving-average_ma_orders" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Moving-average (MA) Orders</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies that the model contains moving-average orders. The details for each lag
(order) are provided.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="moving-average_ma_seasonal_orders" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Moving-average (MA) Seasonal Orders</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies that the model contains seasonal moving-average orders. The details for each
lag (order) are provided.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="moving_averages" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Moving Averages</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">In time series analysis, the average of a series value with surrounding series values.
Moving averages are used to smooth a time series--that is, reduce noise or fluctuation in the
series.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry xml:lang="en-us" id="mean_square_error_mse">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">MSE</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The average of the squares of the difference between the model-predicted values and the
observed values of the series. Used as a measure of how much the model-predicted values differ from
the observed values of the series.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="multidimensional_scaling_mds" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Multidimensional Scaling (MDS)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A type of data analysis (exploratory, in the case of ALSCAL) in which the basic data
are dissimilarities, or distance data. The purpose of MDS is to identify and model the structure and
dimensions of a set of stimuli (objects or events) from the dissimilarity data observed among the
stimuli.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="multiple_category_coordinates" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Multiple Category Coordinates</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">For non Multiple Nominal variables, the multiple category coordinates represent the
category coordinates in the object space before constraints are applied. For Multiple Nominal
variables, they represent the quantifications of the categories.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="multiple_category_set" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Multiple Category Set</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Includes several categorical variables with the same possible responses. Multiple
responses are coded in the different variables, up to the limit imposed by the number of variables
in the set. A multiple dichotomy set is a different way of coding the same information.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="multiple_comparison_dimension" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Multiple Comparison Dimension</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The level of the factor being compared.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="multiple_comparisons" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Multiple Comparisons</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Procedures for comparing all possible pairs of group means must adjust for the fact
that many comparisons are being made. When many nonindependent comparisons are being made, the
possibility of finding significant differences by chance increases as the number of comparisons
increases. Multiple comparison procedures attempt to control the error rate by imposing more
stringent criteria for calling observed differences significant. The various multiple comparison
procedures differ in how they make this correction.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="csglm_cslogistic_test_statistics_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Multiple Correspondence Analysis</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This procedure allows you to examine the relationship between two or more unordered
categorical (nominal) variables graphically in a multidimensional scatterplot. Multiple
correspondence analysis (also called homogeneity analysis) is similar to correspondence analysis,
but it allows you to examine more than two variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="multiple_dichotomy_set" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Multiple Dichotomy Set</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A set of dichotomous (yes/no) variables, each representing one of the possible
responses to a question. Multiple responses are coded simply by indicating yes for each of the
appropriate dichotomies. A multiple category set is a different way of coding the same
information.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="multiple_fit" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Multiple Fit</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is the fit resulting from not restricting variables to non- Multiple Nominal
quantifications. It is equal to single fit plus single loss.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="multiple_line_chart" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Multiple Line Chart</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The chart has two or more lines. Each line connects one point from each category on the
category axis. Lines can represent groups of cases, separate variables, or individual cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="multiple_nominal_categorical_pca" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Multiple Nominal (Categorical PCA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The quantifications can be different for each dimension. When all variables are
multiple nominal, categorical principal components analysis produces the same results as homogeneity
analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="multiple_nominal_variables" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Multiple Nominal Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variables in which categories are treated as unordered, and objects (cases) in the same
category receive the same quantification.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="multiple_r" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Multiple R</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The correlation coefficient between the observed and predicted values of the dependent
variable. It ranges in value from 0 to 1. A small value indicates that there is little or no linear
relationship between the dependent variable and the independent variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="multiple_response_definitions" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Multiple Response Definitions</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Indicates whether or not the data file contains defined multiple response sets.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="multiple_response_set" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Multiple Response Set</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A way of coding responses to a set of questions either as multiple dichotomies or as
multiple categories; see those two entries for details. Sometimes this phrase is a synonym for a
multiple category set.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="multiple_response_sets" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Multiple Response Sets</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the multiple response sets you have defined. You can define up to 20 multiple
response sets. Each set must have a unique name. Use Add, Change, and Remove to modify this
list.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gseasmult" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Multiplicative Seasonal Adjustment</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The seasonal component is a factor by which the seasonally adjusted series is
multiplied to yield the original series. In effect, seasonal components that are proportional to the
overall level of the series. Observations without seasonal variation have a seasonal component of
1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="exsm_smult" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Multiplicative Seasonal Component (Exponential Smoothing)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The series shows periodic variation at the periodicity defined for it, and the size of
the periodic variation depends on the overall level of the series.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="multivariate_tests" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Multivariate Tests</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Test statistics for evaluating multivariate differences between groups.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N1</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The total number of trials for the first group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N2</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The total number of trials for the second group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_11" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of values associated with the given measure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of Cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases (observations or records).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_spchart" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Total sample size.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="unfiltered_n" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N (unfiltered)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The total number of cases, ignoring filter status.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="npct_confidence_interval_drop-down_list" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N% Confidence Interval Drop-Down List</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Confidence interval for the prediction intervals. You can select 90, 95, or 99% from
the drop-down list.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="npct_confidence_interval_of_the_difference_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N% Confidence Interval of the Difference</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Enter a value between 1 and 99 to specify the likelihood that a confidence interval of
the mean difference, a range of values based on the sample mean difference (between scores for each
case), contains the population mean difference. Higher values will give more conservative intervals
(commonly chosen values are 90, 95 or 99).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="npct_confidence_interval_of_the_difference_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N% Confidence Interval of the Difference</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Enter a value between 1 and 99 to specify the likelihood that a confidence interval of
the difference, a range of values based on the difference between the sample means, includes the
difference between the population means. Higher values will give more conservative intervals
(commonly chosen values are 90, 95 or 99).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="npct_confidence_interval_of_the_difference" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N% Confidence Interval of the Difference</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Enter a percentage between 1 and 99 to specify the likelihood that the confidence
interval of the difference, a range of values based on the difference between the sample mean and
the Test Value, includes the difference between the population mean and the Test Value. Higher
values will give more conservative intervals (commonly chosen values are 90, 95 or 99).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="nagelkerke_r-square" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Nagelkerke R-square</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The Nagelkerke R-square is an adjusted version of the Cox &amp; Snell R-square. The Cox
&amp; Snell R-square has a maximum value of less than 1, even for a "perfect" model. The Nagelkerke
R-square adjusts the scale of the statistic to cover the full range from 0 to 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="name" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Name</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Enter up to seven characters for the name of the multiple response set. The program
prefixes a dollar sign to the name you assign. You cannot refer to multiple response set names in
other procedures.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="nan" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">NAN</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Abbreviation for "not a number." Appears in output when data or intermediate
calculations yield values outside the effective range of double precision computation. You should
rarely, if ever, encounter this result.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="natural_log_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Natural log</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Estimates pertaining to the natural log of the common odds ratio.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="natural_log_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Natural Log</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Log transforms the series before estimation using the natural logarithm (base e).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="natural_log_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Natural Log</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies that a natural log transformation was performed on the variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gnormalpp06" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Natural Log Transformation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Uses the natural (base e) logarithms of data values instead of the values themselves.
This transformation requires that all values be positive.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="natural_response" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Natural Response</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The natural response rate is the probability of getting a response with no dose.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ncdf.beta_quant_shape1_shape2_nc" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">NCDF.BETA(quant, shape1, shape2, nc)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">NCDF.BETA(quant, shape1, shape2, nc). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that
a value from the noncentral Beta distribution, with the given shape and noncentrality parameters,
will be less than quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ncdf.chisq_quant_df_nc" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">NCDF.CHISQ(quant, df,nc)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">NCDF.CHISQ(quant, df, nc). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a value
from the noncentral chi-square distribution, with df degrees of freedom and the specified
noncentrality parameter, will be less than quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ncdf.f_quant_df1_df2_nc" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">NCDF.F(quant, df1, df2,nc)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">NCDF.F(quant, df1, df2, nc). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a value
from the noncentral F distribution, with degrees of freedom df1 and df2, and noncentrality nc, will
be less than quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ncdf.t_quant_df_nc" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">NCDF.T(quant, df,nc)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">NCDF.T(quant, df, nc). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a value from
the noncentral Student's t distribution, with the specified degrees of freedom df and noncentrality
nc, will be less than quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_distinct_values" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N Distinct Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of distinct values for each binning input variable (before binning).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="negative" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Negative</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cases that are negative; that is, do not fall into the category of interest.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="negative_differences" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Negative Differences</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the number of negative differences. The number of times variable 1 is less than
variable 2.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="negative_extreme_differences" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Negative Extreme Differences</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The largest negative difference between two cumulative distribution functions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="negative_ranks" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Negative Ranks</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the number of negative ranks. The number of times the rank of variable 1 is less
than the rank of variable 2.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="negative_zero_log_transform" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">negative zero log transform</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of cases identified as having negative or zero values. Only applies in the case
of a log transform.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="newcombe" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Newcombe</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A hybrid interval calculated in two steps, the first based on individual Wilson score 
intervals for each group’s proportion. A generally recommended interval.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="newcombe_mover" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Newcombe</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Newcombe MOVER score-based interval based on Wilson score individual intervals and an estimate 
of the population correlation between the related-samples proportions. A recommended interval.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="newcombe_cont" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Newcombe (Continuity Corrected)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Continuity-corrected version of Newcombe’s hybrid interval. Tends to be conservative.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="new_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">New Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Value into which one or more old values will be recoded. The value must be the same
data type (numeric or string) as the old value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="new_variable_rank_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">New Variable (Rank Cases)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The name assigned to the new variable that contains the ranked values for the source
variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="next_stage" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Next stage</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Stage at which the cluster formed at this stage is merged with another cluster.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_in_the_anomaly_list" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N in the Anomaly List</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of cases identified as anomalous.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_levels" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N levels</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the number of levels for each effect.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="nmiss_variable_.." xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">NMISS(variable[,..])</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">NMISS(variable[,..]). Numeric. Returns a count of the arguments that have system- and
user-missing values. This function requires one or more arguments, which should be variable names in
the active dataset.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="node" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Node</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A part of the tree that represents a subset of cases defined by having certain values
of independent (predictor) variables. Node numbers correspond to node numbers in the tree
diagram.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="node-by-node" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Node-by-node</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Results for individual nodes.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_of_cases_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N of cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of cases in each group</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_of_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N of Cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value graphed represents the number of cases in each category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_of_cases_file_information" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N of Cases (file information)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of cases (rows) in the data file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_of_cumulative_events" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N of Cumulative Events</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases that have experienced the terminal event from the start of the
table until this time.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_of_defined_variable_elements" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N of Defined Variable Elements</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">For numeric and short string variables (8 bytes or less), each variable represents a
single variable element. For long string variables, each 8-byte slot represents a single variable
element.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_of_events" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N of Events</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases that experience the terminal event.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_of_items" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N of Items</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of items used to calculate the associated statistics.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_of_lines_of_documents" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N of Lines of Documents</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of lines of descriptive document text.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="model_fit_statistics_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N of Named Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of variables (columns) in the data file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_total_sample" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">The specified sample size or total number of trials.</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The total sample size across groups.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_total_trials" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N of Total Trials</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The total number of trials.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_of_remaining_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N of Remaining Cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases that, at this time, have yet to experience the terminal event or be
censored.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="no_help" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">No Help</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">No help available for this item.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="noise" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Noise</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An unpredictable source of variation in a series. A noise series may or may not be
white noise.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="nominal_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Nominal</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The optimal scaling level. The nominal optimal scaling level applies no restriction on
the order of the quantifications (optimal scale values) of the categories of a variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="nominal_5" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Nominal</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A variable can be treated as nominal when its values represent categories with no
intrinsic ranking (for example, the department of the company in which an employee works). Examples
of nominal variables include region, postal code, and religious affiliation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="nominal_by_interval_measures" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Nominal by Interval Measures</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Nominal by interval measures assume that one variable is measured on a nominal scale
(for example, job category or company division), and the other is measured on an interval scale (for
example, salary or sales revenue).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="nominal_measures" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Nominal Measures</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Nominal measures assume that variables have values with no intrinsic order (for
example, job category or company division). One or more of the following can be selected:
contingency coefficient, Phi, Cramer's V, lambda, uncertainty coefficient.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="friedmans_chi-square_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">NonAdditivity</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The residual sums of squares can be further separated in order to test the
non-additivity of the items in the scale. Additivity holds under the null hypothesis. The greater
the ratio between the mean square of non-additivity and the mean square of balance, the less likely
additivity holds.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="noncentrality_parameter" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Noncentrality Parameter</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The estimated noncentrality parameter is used in determining the observed power under
the alternative hypothesis for the F test.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="none_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">None</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Suppresses spread-versus-level plots and the Levene statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="none_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">None</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Suppresses box plots.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="none_6" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">None</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Suppresses cluster membership output.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="none_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">None</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Suppresses all interactions among factors and includes the corresponding sums of
squares in the error sum of squares.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="none_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">None</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Creates no charts.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="none" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">None</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Factors are not rotated. This is the default setting.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gspectra08" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">None (Spectral Analysis)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">No smoothing. If this option is chosen, the spectral density estimate is the same as
the periodogram.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="non-events" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Non-Events</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases in which the event of interest did not occur.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="nonlinear_canonical_correlation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Nonlinear Canonical Correlation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This procedure allows you to analyze the relationships between two or more sets of
variables. It allows you to examine any mix of categorical (ordered and unordered) and quantitative
variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="nonlinear_principal_components" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Nonlinear Principal Components</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This procedure allows you to reduce an original set of variables into a smaller set of
uncorrelated variables that represent most of the information in the original variable set, while
accounting for as much of the variation as possible in the original set of variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="non_mnom_variables" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Non MNOM Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This refers to variables that are scaled at a level other than Multiple Nominal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="nonstationarity" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Nonstationarity</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Nonstationary series do not have constant mean and variance over time. Nonstationary
series must be made stationary via a suitable transformation before you can model them using ARIMA.
Forms of nonstationarity include the presence of a trend, or nonconstant variance across series
values. If a trend is indeed present, then a combination of nonseasonal and seasonal differencing
induces stationarity.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="normal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Normal</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The observed cumulative distribution function is compared to the normal distribution
with the observed mean and standard deviation as parameters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="normal_stddev" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">NORMAL(stddev)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">NORMAL(stddev). Numeric. Returns a normally distributed pseudorandom number from a
distribution with mean 0 and standard deviation stddev, which must be a positive number. You can
repeat the sequence of pseudorandom numbers by setting a seed in the Random Number Seed dialog box
before each sequence.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="normal_distribution_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Normal distribution</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The normal, or Gaussian, distribution is defined by its location (mean) and scale
(standard deviation) parameters. Its density function has a bell shape which is symmetric about its
mean. About 68% of the values of a normal variate will fall within 1 standard deviation of the mean,
95% within 2 standard deviations, and 99.7% within 3.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="normal_distribution" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Normal Distribution</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A symmetric, bell-shaped distribution which plays an important role in statistical
inference.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="normality_plots_with_tests" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Normality Plots with Tests</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays normal probability and detrended probability plots. The Kolmogorov-Smirnov
statistic with a Lilliefors significance level for testing normality is displayed. The Shapiro-Wilk
statistic is calculated if the sample size does not exceed 50.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="normalize" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">NORMALIZE(strexp).</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">NORMALIZE(strexp). String. Returns the normalized version of strexp. In Unicode mode,
it returns Unicode NFC. In code page mode, it has no effect and returns strexp unmodified. The
length of the result may be different from the length of the input.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="normalized_bayesian_information_criterion_bic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Normalized BIC</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Normalized Bayesian Information Criterion. A general measure of the overall fit of a
model that attempts to account for model complexity. It is a score based upon the mean square error
and includes a penalty for the number of parameters in the model and the length of the series. The
penalty removes the advantage of models with more parameters, making the statistic easy to compare
across different models for the same series.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="normalized_importance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Normalized importance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Measures how strongly a variable acts as a primary or surrogate predictor relative to
the variable having the largest importance value. Ranges from 0 to 100, with the variable having the
largest importance value scored as 100.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="normalized_raw_stress" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Normalized Raw Stress</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The procedure attempts to minimize the normalized raw stress of the solution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="normal_parameters" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Normal Parameters</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The parameters of the normal distribution against which the observed distribution is
being tested.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="normal_probability_plot" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Normal Probability Plot</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays a normal probability plot of the standardized residuals. Used to check for
normality. If the variable is normally distributed, the plotted points form a straight diagonal
line.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="normal_scores_rank_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Normal Scores (Rank Cases)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The z scores corresponding to the estimated cumulative proportion.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="normal_variates" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Normal Variates</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Error terms are randomly drawn from a distribution with the expected value 0 and the
standard deviation equal to the square root of the mean squared error term of the regression.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="exsm_snone" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">No Seasonal Component (Exponential Smoothing)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The series does not show periodic variation at the periodicity defined for it.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="notes" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Notes</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">No help is available for items in the Notes table.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="def_note" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Notes (output item type)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Information about the execution of the procedure. It includes the missing value
information, weighting or filtering information, and the syntax command(s). It can be activated as a
table object.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="no_transformation_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">No Transformation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies that no transformations were performed on the variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="no_trend_exponential_smoothing" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">No Trend (Exponential Smoothing)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The level of the series does not show any overall linear trend.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_parameters" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N Parameters</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the number of model parameters accounted for by each effect.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="npdf.beta" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">NPDF.BETA</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">NPDF.BETA(quant, shape1, shape2, nc). Numeric. Returns the probability density of the
noncentral beta distribution, with the given shape and noncentrality parameters, at quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="npdf.chisq" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">NPDF.CHISQ</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">NPDF.CHISQ(quant, df, nc). Numeric. Returns the probability density of the noncentral
chi-square distribution, with df degrees of freedom and the specified noncentrality parameter, at
quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="npdf.f" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">NPDF.F</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">NPDF.F(quant, df1, df2, nc). Numeric. Returns the probability density of the noncentral
F distribution, with degrees of freedom df1 and df2 and noncentrality nc, at quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="npdf.t" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">NPDF.T</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">NPDF.T(quant, df, nc). Numeric. Returns the probability density of the noncentral
Student's t distribution, with the specified degrees of freedom df and noncentrality nc, at
quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_step-halving" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N step-halving</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number times the algorithm has performed the step-halving procedure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_subjects" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">N Subjects</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the number of unique subjects defined by the subject variables for repeated
effects.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ntiles_rank_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Ntiles (Rank Cases)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Ranks are based on percentile groups, with each group containing approximately the same
number of cases. For example, 4 Ntiles would assign a rank of 1 to cases below the 25th percentile,
2 to cases between the 25th and 50th percentile, 3 to cases between the 50th and 75th percentile,
and 4 to cases above the 75th percentile.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ntrim" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">NTRIM(varname)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">NTRIM(varname). Returns the value of varname, without removing trailing blanks. The
value of varname must be a variable name; it cannot be an expression. </ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="null" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Null</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The model fit without parameters or intercept. If the difference in the fitted and null
model -2 log likelihoods is large, then you can reject the hypothesis that all the parameter
coefficients are 0.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="null_correlation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Null</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The null hypothesis value of the correlation parameter.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="null_proportion" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Null</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The null hypothesis value of the proportion or correlation parameter.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gnullhyp" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Null hypothesis</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A precise, testable statement about the population from which a sample of cases comes.
Typically the null hypothesis is the opposite of the real hypothesis of interest. It might state,
for example, that a statistic equals 0 in the population, or that the values of two subgroup
statistics are equal in the population.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="null_hypothesis_model_test_of_parallel_slopes" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Null hypothesis model (test of parallel slopes)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The null hypothesized model assumes equal slopes for all categories</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_strexpr_format" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">NUMBER(strexpr,format)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">NUMBER(strexpr,format). Numeric. Returns the value of the string expression strexpr as
a number. The second argument, format, is the numeric format used to read strexpr. For example,
NUMBER(stringDate,DATE11) converts strings containing dates of the general format dd-mmm-yyyy to a
numeric number of seconds that represent that date. (To display the value as a date, use the FORMATS
or PRINT FORMATS command.) If the string cannot be read using the format, this function returns
system-missing.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gbar19" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number Above (Graph Summary Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases above the specified value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_at_risk" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number at risk</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of subjects in the study during the interval between the listed event time
and the previous event time.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gbar20" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number Below (Graph Summary Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases below the specified value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_entering_interval" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number Entering Interval</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of surviving cases at the beginning of the interval.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_exposed_to_risk" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number Exposed to Risk</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of surviving cases minus one half the censored cases. This is intended to
account for the effect of the censored cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_format_alphabetic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number Format Alphabetic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays footnote markers as characters of the alphabet.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_format_numeric" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number Format Numeric</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays footnote markers as numerals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_bins" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Bins</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of bins generated for each binning input variable by the procedure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="greport03" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of cases in the break category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_cases_aggregate_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Cases (Aggregate Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The (weighted) number of cases in the break group with valid data for the source
variable, unless modified by one of the check boxes below.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gbar09" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Cases (Graph Summary Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases having a nonmissing value of the selected variable. If there are no
missing values, this is the same as N of cases in the previous dialog box.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_cases_by_level_of_guide_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Cases by Level of Guide Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The cross-classification of bins by values of the guide variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_categories_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Categories</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of categories defined for each variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_clusters_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of clusters</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Stages are identified by the number of clusters at that stage. At the starting point
(the stage with the largest number) there are as many clusters as there are cases; at the ending
point (stage 1), there is a single cluster with all cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_clusters_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Clusters</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of clusters in a given solution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_duplicates" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Duplicates</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases in the duplicate identifiers group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_events" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Events</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of subjects in the study who experience the event of interest at the event
time.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_factors" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Factors</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Extracts a user-specified number of factors, regardless of their eigenvalues. Enter a
positive number.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_hidden_layer" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Hidden Layers</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A multilayer perceptron can have one or two hidden layers.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_invalid_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Invalid Cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases with mean estimates out of range for the model's link
function.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_iterations_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Iterations</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of iterations performed by the algorithm.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_levels_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Levels</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the number of levels of the variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_measurements_per_subject" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Measurements per Subject</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of unique combinations of within-subject effect levels. This is not
necessarily constant across subjects; for example, different patients may make different numbers of
visits to the hospital during a study. The minimum and maximum observed number of measurements among
subjects is displayed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_missing_values" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of missing values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases/objects that have values outside the valid range for a variable.
The valid range for a variable is the range 1 through the specified number of categories.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_nodes" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of nodes</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of nodes (including root node) in the final tree model. Since node counting
starts with 0 for the root node, the highest node number in the tree is one less than the number of
nodes reported here.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_outliers" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Outliers</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of outliers included in the estimated model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_predictors" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Predictors</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of predictors (independent variables) included in the estimated model. When
the Expert Modeler is used, this may be less than the number of specified predictors, since
predictors that do not have a statistically significant relationship with the dependent variable are
dropped.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_predictors_with_missing_values" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of predictors with missing values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the number of predictors with missing values. The missing values are replaces
with the mean.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_of_replaced_missing_values" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Replaced Missing Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of cases for which missing values were replaced.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_responses_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Responses</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of subjects in the specified grouping that received the specified dosage and
experienced the event of interest.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_responses_gt_number_of_subjects" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Responses > Number of Subjects</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cases rejected because the number of responses exceeded the number of subjects.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_runs" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Runs</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of sequences of repetitions of the same outcome.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_step-halvings" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Step-halvings</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">At each iteration, the step size is reduced by a factor of 0.5 until the log-likelihood
increases or maximum step-halving is reached.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_subjects" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Subjects</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of subjects in the specified grouping that received the specified
dosage.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_subjects2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Subjects</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of unique combinations of subject effect levels. This is not necessarily the
product of the numbers of levels of subject effects; for example, while subjects may be defined by
the combination of Hospital ID and Patient ID to avoid problems with non-unique Patient ID variables
across hospitals, Patient ID’s are also unlikely to be exactly duplicated across all hospitals in
the study.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_weight_adj" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Synaptic Weight Adjustments</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The total number of times a weight's value was updated by the algorithm.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_terminal_events" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Terminal Events</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases that experience the terminal event in this interval.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_terminal_nodes" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of terminal nodes</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of nodes at the ends of the branches, which are not split any further.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_units" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Units</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">There is one unit for each covariate and each level of each factor.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_units_rbf" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Units (RBF)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">In the input and output layers, there is one unit for each covariate and each level of
each factor. In the hidden layers, the number of units is user-specified or determined automatically
by the procedure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="n_units_hidden_layer" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Units in Hidden Layer</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of units in each hidden layer can be specified explicitly or determined
automatically by the estimation algorithm.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_units_sampled" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Units Sampled</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The user-specified number of sampling units drawn at this stage.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_valid_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Valid Cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of valid cases for the new variable. Depending on the method used and the
position of missing values in the data file, this may not be equal to the total number of cases in
the file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_variables" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of variables in the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_of_violations" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number of Violations</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases whose variable values violate the rule.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="number_withdrawing_during_interval" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Number Withdrawing during Interval</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of censored cases in this interval.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="numerator" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Numerator</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The numerator variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="numerator_orders" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Numerator Orders</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies that the transfer function for the associated independent variable contains
numerator orders. The details for each lag (order) are provided.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="numerical" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Numerical</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The optimal scaling level. A numerical optimal scaling level applies a linear
restriction on the quantifications (optimal scale values) of the categories of a variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="numeric_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Numeric Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A variable whose values are numbers. Values are displayed in standard numeric format,
using the decimal delimiter specified in the Regional Setting control panel. The Data Editor accepts
numeric values in standard format; or in scientific notation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gnumericvariable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Numeric Variable (Syntax)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A variable whose values are numbers. Numeric variables can be displayed in many
different formats, including the number of digits and decimal places displayed, as well as currency,
date, and time formats. None of these formats affects the way the program represents the data
internally. Numeric variables can be converted to or from string variables using the STRING and
NUMBER functions in the transformation language. In command syntax you can specify numeric values as
integers, decimal fractions, or in scientific notation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="nvalid_variable_.." xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">NVALID(variable[,..])</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">NVALID(variable[,..]). Numeric. Returns a count of the arguments that have valid,
nonmissing values. This function requires one or more arguments, which should be variable names in
the active dataset.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="object_7" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Object</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The objects in the analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="object" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Object</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Objects are the basic units of analysis, or cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="object_points_labeled_by" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Object Points Labeled by</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The object points on the plot are marked using the category labels of the indicated
variable(s).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="objects" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Objects</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of objects for which the proximity matrices are defined.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="object_scores" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Object scores</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Optimal score assigned to an object (case) in a particular dimension.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="objects_labeled_by" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Objects Labeled by</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The object on the plot are marked using the category labels of the indicated
variable(s).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="object_weight" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Object Weight</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is the positive integer weight given to the object.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="observed_tree" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Observed (Tree)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">For each case, the observed category is the actual category for the dependent variable
in the data file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="observed_control_group_span" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Observed Control Group Span</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Observations from the control and experimental groups are combined and ranked. The span
is the highest rank of an observation in the control group minus the lowest rank of an observation
in the control group plus 1. The span is used to determine if the control and experimental groups
come from the same population.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="observed_count" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Observed Count</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The actual number of cases in the cell.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="observed_frequency" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Observed Frequency</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number or percentage of observed cases that match a particular covariate
pattern.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="observed_n" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Observed N</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of observed observations in each category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="observed_power" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Observed Power</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The observed power gives the probability that the F test will detect the differences
between groups equal to those implied by the sample difference.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="observed_proportion" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Observed Proportion</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The proportion of the cases having a particular value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="observed_significance_level" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Observed Significance Level</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Often called the p value. The basis for deciding whether or not to reject the null
hypothesis. It is the probability that a statistical result as extreme as the one observed would
occur if the null hypothesis were true. If the observed significance level is small enough, usually
less than 0.05 or 0.01, the null hypothesis is rejected.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="observed_test_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Observed Test Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The observed proportion minus the specified expected proportion under the null hypothesis (H0).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ochiai_similarity_measure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Ochiai Similarity Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A binary version of the cosine of the angle between vectors of values, with a range of
0 to 1. Computed from a fourfold table as SQRT(a**2/((a+b)(a+c))) where a represents cases present
on both items, and b and c represent cases present on one item but absent on the other.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="odds_ratio" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Odds Ratio</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The ratio of the odds for the first variable and the odds for the second variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="odds_ratios" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Odds Ratios</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The ratio of the odds at each category of the factor to the odds at the specified
reference category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="odds_ratio_proportions" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Odds Ratios</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The odds ratio as defined by the discordant proportions and counts.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="of_dimension_to_inerita_of_point" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Of dimension to inertia of point</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The proportion of the inertia of a point accounted for by each dimension. This measure
indicates how well each point is represented in the solution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="off-diagonal_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Off-Diagonal Cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the number of cases that are not on the diagonal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="offset_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Offset</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The offset term is a "structural" predictor whose coefficient is not estimated by the
model; it is assumed to be 1. Its effect is to shift the value of the linear predictor of the
dependent variable. This is especially useful in Poisson regression models where each case may have
different levels of exposure to the event of interest; for example, when modeling accident rates for
individual drivers, there is an important difference between a driver who has been at fault in 1
accident in 3 years of experience and a driver who has been at fault in 1 accident in 25 years! The
number of accidents can be modeled as a Poisson response if the experience of the driver is included
as an offset term.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="of_point_to_inertia_of_dimension" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Of point to inertia of dimension</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The proportion of the inertia of each dimension accounted for by a point. This measure
indicates the importance of each point to each dimension.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ok_6" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">OK</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Runs the command and closes the dialog box. The Paired Variables list must contain at
least one pair of variables before you can click OK.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ok_5" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">OK</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Runs the command and closes the dialog box. The Test Variable(s) list must contain at
least one variable and the Grouping Variable must contain a variable with defined groups before you
can click OK.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ok_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">OK</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Runs the command and closes the dialog box. The Dependent List must contain at least
one variable before you can click OK.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ok_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">OK</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Runs the command and closes the dialog box. The Variable list must contain at least one
variable before you can click OK.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ok_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">OK</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Runs the command and closes the dialog box. You must select one dependent variable and
at least one independent variable before you can click OK.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ok" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">OK</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Runs the command and closes the dialog box. The Row(s) list and the Column(s) list must
each contain at least one variable before you can click OK.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ok_14" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">OK</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Runs the command and closes the dialog box. The Test Variables list must contain at
least two variables before you can click OK.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ok_42" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">OK</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Runs the command and closes the dialog box.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ok_16" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">OK</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Runs the command and closes the dialog box. You must select a data file (Browse) and
define one or more variables before you can click OK.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ok_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">OK</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Runs the command and closes the dialog box. The Test Variable(s) list must contain at
least one variable before you can click OK.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ok_15" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">OK</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Runs the command and closes the dialog box. The Independents list must contain at least
one variable and the Grouping Variable list must contain a variable with a defined range before you
can click OK.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ok_7" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">OK</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Runs the command and closes the dialog box. The Dependent list must contain a variable
and the Factor list must contain at least one variable with defined ranges before you can click
OK.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ok_13" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">OK</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Runs the command and closes the dialog box. The Test Pair(s) List must contain at least
one pair of variables before you can click OK.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ok_12" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">OK</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Runs the command and closes the dialog box. The Test Variable List must contain at
least one variable and the Grouping Variable must contain a variable with defined range before you
can click OK.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ok_11" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">OK</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Runs the command and closes the dialog box. The Test Variable List must contain at
least one variable before you can click OK.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ok_10" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">OK</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Runs the command and closes the dialog box. You must select at least one Dependent
variable and an Independent Variable that can be either a variable in the active dataset or Time
before you can click OK.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ok_9" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">OK</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Runs the command and closes the dialog box. The Variables list must contain at least
two variables and the Controlling for variable list must contain at least one variable before you
can click OK.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ok_8" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">OK</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Runs the command and closes the dialog box. The Variables list must contain at least
two variables before you can click OK.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="olap" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">OLAP</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An OLAP cube is a table of results summarized across several grouping variables, which
can then be manipulated or rearranged interactively. For example, you may have sales figures
summarized by geographic region, product type, customer type, month, and sales indicator (units
ordered, revenue, profit, and so on).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="omitted_category" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Omitted Category</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Category omitted for deviation or simple contrasts.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="one_minus_survival" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">One Minus Survival</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Plots one-minus the survival function on a linear scale.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="one_sided_p" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">One-Sided p</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A p-value appropriate for cases where the observed direction of a relationship has been 
predicted in advance.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="one-tailed_asymptotic_significance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">One-Tailed Asymptotic Significance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The probability, based on the asymptotic distribution of a test statistic and assuming
that the data set is large, of obtaining results as extreme as the one observed, when the null
hypothesis is true. A one-tailed significance level tests a null hypothesis in which the direction
of an effect is specified in advance.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="one-tailed_significance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">One-Tailed Significance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The probability of obtaining results as extreme as the one observed, and in the same
direction when the null hypothesis is true. Tests a null hypothesis in which the direction of an
effect is specified in advance.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="optimality_tolerance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Optimality Tolerance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This can be thought of as the precision (number of significant digits) in the objective
function at the solution; thus if the tolerance is 0.000001, the objective function should have
about six significant digits. The optimality tolerance must be greater than the Function Precision.
The default optimality tolerance is a very small platform-dependent number.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="optimal_scaling_level" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Optimal Scaling Level</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The optimal scaling level assigned to each variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="optimal_solution_found" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Optimal Solution Found</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">If the optimal solution is not found, consider changing the algorithm criteria.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="options_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Options</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to choose additional descriptive statistics or to specify the order in which
variables are displayed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="options_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Options</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to specify confidence level for the interval to be displayed and to control
the treatment of missing values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="options_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Options</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to choose an alternate method of partitioning the sums of squares; to
specify the order of covariate entry; to request optional statistics; and to limit the order of
interactions evaluated among factors.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="options_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Options</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to obtain optional statistics, and change the treatment of missing
values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="options_5" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Options</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to control the criteria by which variables are chosen for entry or removal
from the regression model; to suppress the constant term; and to control the handling of missing
values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="options_6" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Options</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to modify the treatment of missing values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="options_7" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Options</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to request additional statistics and to determine the treatment of missing
values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="options_8" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Options</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to obtain optional summary statistics and to modify the treatment of cases
with missing values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="options" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Options</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to modify the treatment of missing values or sort the display of factor
matrices.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="order_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Order</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the order of the 5 highest and 5 lowest observations.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="order_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Order</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cases are displayed in order of magnitude of the statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ordinal_7" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Ordinal</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A variable can be treated as ordinal when its values represent categories with some
intrinsic ranking (for example, levels of service satisfaction from highly dissatisfied to highly
satisfied). Examples of ordinal variables include attitude scores representing degree of
satisfaction or confidence and preference rating scores.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ordinal_5" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Ordinal</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The optimal scaling level. An ordinal optimal scaling level applies an order
restriction on the quantifications (optimal scale values) of the categories of a variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ordinal_measures" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Ordinal Measures</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Ordinal measures assume that variables have values with some intrinsic order (for
example, low, medium, high; strongly agree, agree, disagree, strongly disagree). One or more of the
following can be selected: gamma, Somers' d, Kendall's tau-b, Kendall's tau-c. Note: Ordinal
variables can be either numeric codes that represent categories (for example, 1 = low, 2 = medium, 3
= high) or string values. However, the alphabetic order of string values is assumed to reflect the
true order of the categories. For example, for a string variable with the values of low, medium,
high, the order of the categories is interpreted as high, low, medium--which is not the correct
order. In general, it is more reliable to use numeric codes to represent ordinal data.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ordinal_optimal_scaling_level" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Ordinal optimal scaling level</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An ordinal optimal scaling level applies an order restriction on the quantifications
(optimal scale values) of the categories.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="original_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Original Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the original categorical variable before recoding</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="original_value_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Original Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variable value before recoding.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gaxis07" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Origin Line (Bar Charts)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A baseline from which data bars hang or extend.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="other" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Other</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays one or more of the following: Pearson chi-square, likelihood-ratio chi-square,
Mantel-Haenszel chi-square, Fisher's exact test, Pearson's r, Spearman's correlation coefficient,
Cohen's kappa, relative risk ratio.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="def_other" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Other (output item type)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">OLE items from other programs inserted in the current Viewer. Objects that can be
inserted into an output document are listed in the Insert Object dialog box.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="other_summary_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Other Summary Function</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value graphed represents the function displayed for the selected variable. To
specify a different function, click Change Statistic. The selected variable must be numeric.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="outlier" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">outlier</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An outlier is an observation whose value is distant from the values of the majority of
observations. It is sometimes more technically defined as a value whose distance from the nearest
quartile is greater than 1.5 times the interquartile range. Outliers pull the mean in their
direction, and should always be carefully examined.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="outlier_-1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Outlier(-1)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The identifying cluster for cases that have been discarded from the analysis as
outliers.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gbox01" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Outlier (Box plots/Explore)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cases with values between 1.5 and 3 box lengths from the upper or lower edge of the
box. The box length is the interquartile range.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="outliers" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Outliers</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays cases with the five largest and five smallest values. These are labeled
Extreme Values in the output.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="outliers_outside_n_standard_deviations" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Outliers Outside n Standard Deviations</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">After selecting this option, enter a positive standard deviation value that limits
casewise diagnostic information to cases with an absolute standardized residual value greater than
the entered value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="outliers_trimmed_from_each_end" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Outliers Trimmed from Each End</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">5% of the control cases are trimmed from each end of the control group since outliers
can distort the range of the span.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="def_outlineview" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Outline View (Viewer)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays output in an outline. You can hide or display individual items, or collapse
all the items under one or more headings. You can also drag items within the outline, move items
right or left, or insert new items. Choose Outlining Toolbar from the View menu to access tools for
manipulating the outline.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="out_of_range" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Out of Range</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cases rejected because of factor values out of the range specified.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="output_layer" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Output Layer</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The output layer contains the target (dependent) variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="output_variables_are_strings" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Output variables are strings</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Defines the new, recoded variable as a string (alphanumeric) variable. The old variable
can be numeric or string.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="overall_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Overall</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The total number of cases included in the analysis, plus the percentage of total cases
these represent.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="overall_5" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Overall</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The comparison of all groups.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="overall_score" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Overall (score)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Score statistic and associated tests, used to evaluate model fit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="overall_percent" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Overall percent</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Overall percentage predicted for each category and overall percentage of correct
predictions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="overall_percentage_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Overall Percentage</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Percentage of cases correctly classified across all predicted categories</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="overall_percentage" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Overall Percentage</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of cases classified, by predicted category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="overall_percent_correct" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Overall Percent Correct</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The overall percentage of cases correctly classified within each sample.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="overall_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Overall Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Tests the null hypothesis that population mean is the same for all groups.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="overview_total" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Overview total</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The total proportion of the inertia of a point accounted for by the dimensions in the
analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="p_dgtdorgeqg" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">P(D>d|G=g)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The probability of the observed score given membership in the most likely group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="p_geqgordeqd" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">P(G=g|D=d)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The posterior probability that a case belongs to the predicted group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="paired_differences" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Paired Differences</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays results for the paired differences.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="paired-samples_t_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Paired-Samples T Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A statistical test of the null hypothesis that two population means are equal. It is
used when the observations for the two groups can be paired in some way. (For example, when the same
person is observed before and after a treatment.) Pairing is used to make the two groups as similar
as possible. Observed differences between the groups can then be attributed more readily to the
variable of interest.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="paired_variables" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Paired Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the pairs of variables you have chosen for the analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pairs" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Pairs</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the paired data.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pairwise_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">pairwise</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">When computing a measure of association between two variables in a larger set, cases
are included in the computation when the two variables have nonmissing values, irrespective of the
values of the other variables in the set.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pairwise_5" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Pairwise</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The comparison of two groups.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pairwise_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Pairwise</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays for each pair of quantitative variables the number of pairwise nonmissing
values, and the pairwise mean, variance, covariance, and correlation. Each computation is performed
using all values for which both variables have nonmissing values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pairwise_for_each_stratum" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Pairwise for each Stratum</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Compares each distinct pair of factor levels for each stratum. Pairwise trend tests are
not available. If you do not have a stratification variable, the tests are not performed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pairwise_over_strata" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Pairwise Over Strata</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Compares each distinct pair of factor levels. Pairwise trend tests are not
available.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gcontrol03" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">p and np Charts</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Plot the number or ratio of nonconforming units. p charts plot the ratio of defective
units to the total number inspected within each subgroup or time interval, while np charts plot the
actual number of defective units. Use p charts rather than np charts if your data contain unequal
sample sizes.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="parallelism_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Parallelism Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A test of the hypothesis that all factor levels have a common slope.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="parameter" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Parameter</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Unknown value estimated by the program.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="parameter_change_tolerance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Parameter change tolerance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Iteration stops if no parameter changes by more than 0.001 from one iteration to the
next. You can choose a smaller or larger value for more or less precision in the parameter
estimates. For greater precision, it may also be necessary to increase the maximum iterations.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="parameter_coding" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Parameter coding</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Value(s) used to encode the corresponding category</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="parameter_convergence" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Parameter Convergence</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The algorithm is assumed to have reach the correct estimates if the absolute change or
relative change in the parameter estimates is less than this value. The criterion is not used if the
value is 0.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="parameter_convergence_levenberg-marquardt_algorithm" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Parameter Convergence (Levenberg-Marquardt Algorithm)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">If successive iterations fail to change any of the parameter values by this proportion,
the procedure stops. To override the default value, select an alternate convergence value from the
drop-down list or select disable to disable this criterion.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="parameter_estimates_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Parameter Estimates</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Prints estimates of the parameter (model term) effects.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="parameter_significance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Parameter significance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A statistical test of whether the parameter is useful in modeling the dependent
variable. Small values (less than .05 or .1) indicate that the parameter contributes to the
model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="parent_node" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Parent node</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The parent node one level above the child node in the tree.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="parsimony" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Parsimony</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The rule that, other things equal, simple models are preferable to complicated ones.
The model you use should require the smallest possible number of parameters that will adequately
represent the pattern in the data.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="part_1_and_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Part 1 and 2</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Statistics are computed for just the items assigned to this part of the total
scale.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="part_and_partial_correlations" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Part and Partial Correlations</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the zero-order, part, and partial correlations. Values of a correlation
coefficient range from -1 to 1. The sign of the coefficient indicates the direction of the
relationship, and its absolute value indicates the strength, with larger absolute values indicating
stronger relationships.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="part_correlation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Part Correlation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The correlation between the dependent variable and an independent variable when the
linear effects of the other independent variables in the model have been removed from the
independent variable. It is related to the change in R-squared when a variable is added to an
equation. Sometimes called the semipartial correlation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gacf08" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Partial Autocorrelations</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Correlates the values of a series with the values lagged by 1 or more cases, after the
effects of correlations at the intervening lags have been removed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="partial_chi-square" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Partial Chi-Square</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Partial associations is a test for individual model terms that is based on the
difference in the Pearson chi-square statistics between a model without the term and a model with
the term.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="partial_correlation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Partial Correlation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The correlation that remains between two variables after removing the correlation that
is due to their mutual association with the other variables. The correlation between the dependent
variable and an independent variable when the linear effects of the other independent variables in
the model have been removed from both.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="partial_power_correlation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Partial Correlation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The power analysis for the one-sample partial correlation test.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="partial_power_correlation_linear" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Partial Correlation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the multiple partial correlation coefficient.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="partial_correlation_coefficient" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Partial Correlation Coefficient</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The correlation that remains between two variables after removing the correlation that
is due to their mutual association with the other variables. The correlation between the dependent
variable and an independent variable when the linear effects of the other independent variables in
the model have been removed from the independent variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="partial_gammas" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Partial Gammas</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Conditional gammas are displayed for 3-way to 10-way tables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="partial_residuals_coxreg" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Partial Residuals</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">You can plot partial residuals against survival time to test the proportional hazards
assumption. One variable is saved for each covariate in the final model. Parital residuals are
available only for models containing at least one covariate.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="partialled" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Partialled</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of the variables assumed to be partialled out.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gspectra05" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Parzen Window (Spectral Plots)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The weights are Wk = 1/p(2 + cos(2 pi fk)) (F[p/2] (2 pi fk))**2, for k= 0, ... p,
where p is the integer part of half the span and F[p/2] is the Fejer kernel of order p/2.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="paste_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Paste</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Generates command syntax from the dialog box selections and pastes the syntax into the
designated syntax window. You can customize the commands with additional features not available from
dialog boxes. The Dependent List must contain at least one variable before you can click Paste.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="paste_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Paste</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Generates command syntax from the dialog box selections and pastes the syntax into the
designated syntax window. You can customize the commands with additional features not available from
dialog boxes. The Test Variable(s) list must contain at least one variable before you can click
Paste.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="paste_8" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Paste</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Generates command syntax from the dialog box selections and pastes the syntax into the
designated syntax window. You can customize the commands with additional features not available from
dialog boxes. The Variables list must contain at least two variables and the Controlling for
variable list must contain at least one variable before you can click Paste.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="paste_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Paste</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Generates command syntax from the dialog box selections and pastes the syntax into the
designated syntax window. You can customize the commands with additional features not available from
dialog boxes. The Variable list must contain at least one variable before you can click Paste.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="paste_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Paste</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Generates command syntax from the dialog box selections and pastes the syntax into the
designated syntax window. You can customize the commands with additional features not available from
dialog boxes. The Test Variable(s) list must contain at least one variable and the Grouping Variable
must contain a variable with defined groups before you can click Paste.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="paste_5" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Paste</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Generates command syntax from the dialog box selections and pastes the syntax into the
designated syntax window. You can customize the commands with additional features not available from
dialog boxes. The Paired Variables list must contain at least one pair of variables before you can
click Paste.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="paste_6" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Paste</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Generates command syntax from the dialog box selections and pastes the syntax into the
designated syntax window. You can customize the commands with additional features not available from
dialog boxes. The Dependent list must contain at least one variable and the Factor list must contain
a variable with defined ranges before you can click Paste.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="paste" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Paste</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Generates command syntax from the dialog box selections and pastes the syntax into the
designated syntax window. You can customize the commands with additional features not available from
dialog boxes. You must select one dependent variable and at least one independent variable before
you can click Paste.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="paste_7" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Paste</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Generates command syntax from the dialog box selections and pastes the syntax into the
designated syntax window. You can customize the commands with additional features not available from
dialog boxes. The Variables list must contain at least two variables before you can click
Paste.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="paste_13" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Paste</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Generates command syntax from the dialog box selections and pastes the syntax into the
designated syntax window. You can customize the commands with additional features not available from
dialog boxes. The Test Variables list must contain at least two variables before you can click
Paste.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="paste_9" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Paste</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Generates command syntax from the dialog box selections and pastes the syntax into the
designated syntax window. You can customize the commands with additional features not available from
dialog boxes. You must select at least one Dependent variable and an Independent Variable that can
be either a variable in the active dataset or Time before you can click Paste.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="paste_15" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Paste</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Generates command syntax from the dialog box selections and pastes the syntax into the
designated syntax window. You can customize the commands with additional features not available from
dialog boxes. The Independents list must contain at least one variable and the Grouping Variable
list must contain a variable with a defined range before you can click Paste.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="paste_10" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Paste</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Generates command syntax from the dialog box selections and pastes the syntax into the
designated syntax window. You can customize the commands with additional features not available from
dialog boxes. The Test Variable List must contain at least one variable before you can click
Paste.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="paste_12" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Paste</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Generates command syntax from the dialog box selections and pastes the syntax into the
designated syntax window. You can customize the commands with additional features not available from
dialog boxes. The Test Pair(s) List must contain at least one pair of variables before you can click
Paste.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="paste_14" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Paste</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Generates command syntax from the dialog box selections and pastes the syntax into the
designated syntax window. You can customize the commands with additional features not available from
dialog boxes. The Row(s) list and the Column(s) list must each contain at least one variable before
you can click Paste.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pattern" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Pattern</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The pattern of predictor values for each requested plot. Each plot is generated using
the predictor values shown in the column corresponding to the plot.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pattern_difference_measure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Pattern Difference Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Difference measure for binary data that ranges from 0 to 1. Computed from a fourfold
table as bc/(a+b+c+d)**2 where a represents cases present on both items, b and c represent cases
present on one item but absent on the other, and d represents cases absent on both items.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pattern_fill_charts" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Pattern Fill (Charts)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Pattern fill. When you click Apply, the current fill color is applied along with the
pattern.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pctcombined" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">pctCombined</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The frequency of cases in a cluster, expressed as a percentage of the total number of
cases assigned to clusters (including the outlier cluster).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pcttotal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">pctTotal</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases in a given category, expressed as a percentage of the total number
of cases, including those excluding from the analysis due to missing values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pdf.bernoulli" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PDF.BERNOULLI</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">PDF.BERNOULLI(quant, prob). Numeric. Returns the probability that a value from the
Bernoulli distribution, with the given probability parameter, will be equal to quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pdf.beta" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PDF.BETA</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">PDF.BETA(quant, shape1, shape2). Numeric. Returns the probability density of the beta
distribution, with the given shape parameters, at quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pdf.binom" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PDF.BINOM</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">PDF.BINOM(quant, n, prob). Numeric. Returns the probability that the number of
successes in n trials, with probability prob of success in each, will be equal to quant. When n is
1, this is the same as PDF.BERNOULLI.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pdf.bvnor" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PDF.BVNOR</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">PDF.BVNOR(quant1, quant2, corr). Numeric. Returns the probability density of the
standard bivariate normal distribution, with the given correlation parameter, at quant1,
quant2.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pdf.cauchy" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PDF.CAUCHY</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">PDF.CAUCHY(quant, loc, scale). Numeric. Returns the probability density of the Cauchy
distribution, with the given location and scale parameters, at quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pdf.chisq" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PDF.CHISQ</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">PDF.CHISQ(quant, df). Numeric. Returns the probability density of the chi-square
distribution, with df degrees of freedom, at quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pdf.exp" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PDF.EXP</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">PDF.EXP(quant, shape). Numeric. Returns the probability density of the exponential
distribution, with the given shape parameter, at quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pdf.f" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PDF.F</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">PDF.F(quant, df1, df2). Numeric. Returns the probability density of the F distribution,
with degrees of freedom df1 and df2, at quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pdf.gamma" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PDF.GAMMA</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">PDF.GAMMA(quant, shape, scale). Numeric. Returns the probability density of the gamma
distribution, with the given shape and scale parameters, at quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pdf.geom" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PDF.GEOM</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">PDF.GEOM(quant, prob). Numeric. Returns the probability that the number of trials to
obtain a success, when the probability of success is given by prob, will be equal to quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pdf.halfnrm" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PDF.HALFNRM</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">PDF.HALFNRM(quant, mean, stddev). Numeric. Returns the probability density of the half
normal distribution, with specified mean and standard deviation, at quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pdf.hyper" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PDF.HYPER</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">PDF.HYPER(quant, total, sample, hits). Numeric. Returns the probability that the number
of objects with a specified characteristic, when sample objects are randomly selected from a
universe of size total in which hits have the specified characteristic, will be equal to quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pdf.igauss" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PDF.IGAUSS</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">PDF.IGAUSS(quant, loc, scale). Numeric. Returns the probability density of the inverse
Gaussian distribution, with the given location and scale parameters, at quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pdf.laplace" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PDF.LAPLACE</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">PDF.LAPLACE(quant, mean, scale). Numeric. Returns the probability density of the
Laplace distribution, with the specified mean and scale parameters, at quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pdf.lnormal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PDF.LNORMAL</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">PDF.LNORMAL(quant, a, b). Numeric. Returns the probability density of the log-normal
distribution, with the specified parameters, at quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pdf.logistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PDF.LOGISTIC</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">PDF.LOGISTIC(quant, mean, scale). Numeric. Returns the probability density of the
logistic distribution, with the specified mean and scale parameters, at quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pdf.negbin" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PDF.NEGBIN</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">PDF.NEGBIN(quant, thresh, prob). Numeric. Returns the probability that the number of
trials to obtain a success, when the threshold parameter is thresh and the probability of success is
given by prob, will be equal to quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pdf.normal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PDF.NORMAL</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">PDF.NORMAL(quant, mean, stddev). Numeric. Returns the probability density of the normal
distribution, with specified mean and standard deviation, at quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pdf.pareto" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PDF.PARETO</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">PDF.PARETO(quant, threshold, shape). Numeric. Returns the probability density of the
Pareto distribution, with the specified threshold and shape parameters, at quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pdf.poisson" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PDF.POISSON</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">PDF.POISSON(quant, mean). Numeric. Returns the probability that a value from the
Poisson distribution, with the specified mean or rate parameter, will be equal to quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pdf.t" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PDF.T</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">PDF.T(quant, df). Numeric. Returns the probability density of Student's t distribution,
with the specified degrees of freedom df, at quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pdf.uniform" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PDF.UNIFORM</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">PDF.UNIFORM(quant, min, max). Numeric. Returns the probability density of the uniform
distribution, with the specified minimum and maximum, at quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pdf.weibull" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PDF.WEIBULL</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">PDF.WEIBULL(quant, a, b). Numeric. Returns the probability density of the Weibull
distribution, with the specified parameters, at quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pearson" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Pearson</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of linear association between two variables. Values of the correlation
coefficient range from -1 to 1. The sign of the coefficient indicates the direction of the
relationship, and its absolute value indicates the strength, with larger absolute values indicating
stronger relationships.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pearsons_r" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Pearson's r</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of linear association between two variables. Values of the correlation
coefficient range from -1 to 1. The sign of the coefficient indicates the direction of the
relationship, and its absolute value indicates the strength, with larger absolute values indicating
stronger relationships.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pearson_chi-square_npar_tests" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Pearson Chi-Square (Npar Tests)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of how well the selected model fits the data. When the significance level is
small, the expected counts are too far from the observed counts, even adjusted for their size.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pearson_chi-square_goodnes_of_fit" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Pearson Chi-square Goodness of Fit</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Goodness of fit statistic based on observed and expected frequencies. This statistic is
sensitive to small expected frequencies. If many expected frequencies are less than 5 (for example
if you have continuous covariates), this statistic does not follow the chi-square distribution, and
conclusions should not be made based on the calculated significance level.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pearson_correlation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Pearson correlation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of linear association between two variables. Values of the correlation
coefficient range from -1 to 1. The sign of the coefficient indicates the direction of the
relationship, and its absolute value indicates the strength, with larger absolute values indicating
stronger relationships.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pearson_correlation_coefficient" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Pearson Correlation Coefficient</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of linear association between two variables. Values of the correlation
coefficient range from -1 to 1. The sign of the coefficient indicates the direction of the
relationship, and its absolute value indicates the strength, with larger absolute values indicating
stronger relationships.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry
id="pearson_correlation_similarity_measure_cluster_analysisdivdistance_and_proximity_measures"
xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Pearson Correlation Similarity Measure (Cluster Analysis/Distance and Proximity
Measures)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A similarity measure for continuous data that measures correlations between vectors of
values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pearson_power_correlation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Pearson Correlation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The power analysis for the Pearson correlation test (one-sample or two-sample).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pearson_residual" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Pearson Residual</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The residual for a linear regression is the actual value of the response variable minus
the value predicted by the regression equation. Here, for each covariate pattern, the Pearson
residual is the difference between the observed and predicted frequencies, rescaled by the expected
variation in the frequency.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="peer_id" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Peer ID</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Identifies the group, based on similarities between values of the input variables, to
which a case belongs.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="peer_size" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Peer Size</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases in the peer group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="peer_size_percent" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Peer Size Percent</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percent of valid cases in the peer group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="penalized_stress" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Penalized Stress</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The product of Kruskal's Stress I and a penalty term; the algorithm attempts to find a
solution that minimizes the penalized stress.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percent_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percent</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of cases in the group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percent_14" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percent</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of cases having a particular value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percent" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percent</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of cases having a particular value. The raw percentage is calculated by
dividing the frequency of the value by the total number of cases in the sample including missing
values. The raw percentage may differ from the valid percentage, which is computed with missing
values excluded from the percentage base.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percent_12" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percent</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of cases in each category</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percentage" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percentage</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage assigned to each response, with each covariate pattern summing to
100%.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="greport04" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percentage Above</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of cases falling above the specified value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percentage_above_aggregate_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percentage Above (Aggregate Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of the cases in the break group whose value for the source variable is
greater than the specified value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gbar16" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percentage Above (Graph Summary Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of cases above the specified value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="greport05" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percentage Below</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of cases falling below the specified value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percentage_below_aggregate_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percentage Below (Aggregate Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of the cases in the break group whose value for the source variable is
less than the specified value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gbar17" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percentage Below (Graph Summary Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of cases below the specified value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="greport06" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percentage Inside</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of cases of the summary variable falling inside the specified interval.
The specified high and low values are included in the range.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percentage_inside_aggregate_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percentage Inside (Aggregate Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of the cases in the break group whose value for the source variable is
greater than or equal to the specified Low value, and less than or equal to the specified High
value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percentage_outside_aggregate_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percentage Outside (Aggregate Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of the cases in the break group whose value for the source variable is
less than the specified Low value or greater than the specified High value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percentages" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percentages</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays bar charts of the percentage of cases in each category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percent_between" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percent between</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This reports the percentage of ratios between the low and high values of the
interval.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percent_censored" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percent Censored</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of cases withdrawn from observation before experiencing the terminal
event.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percent_correct_tree" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percent correct</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of cases in which the predicted category is the same as the observed
category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percent_correct" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percent Correct</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Percentage of cases correctly classified, by observed category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percentile_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">percentile</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The data value below which the specified percentage of values fall. The 25th, 50th, and
75th percentiles are also known as the quartiles, Q1, Q2, and Q3. The quartiles, plus the minimum
and maximum, are known collectively as the five number summary. The 50th percentile is equivalent to
the median.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percentile" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percentile</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Values below which certain percentages of cases fall.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gbar18" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percentile (Graph Summary Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The data value below which the specified percentage of values fall.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percentiles" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percentiles</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Values that divide cases according to values below which certain percentages of cases
fall. For example, the median is the 50% percentile, the value below which 50% of the cases
fall.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percentiles_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percentiles</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Values below which a designated percentage of the cases fall. Displays the following
percentiles: 5, 10, 25, 50, 75, 90, 95. Also displays Tukey's hinges (which define the quartiles of
the distribution).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percentiles_s" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percentiles(s)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">For each specified percentile, displays the value below which that percentage of the
cases fall. For example the 50th percentile is the same as the median, the value below which 50% of
the cases fall.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percentiles_list_box" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percentiles List Box</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the selected percentile values in sorted order.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percent_of_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percent of Cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of responses to each item expressed as a percentage of the number of cases.
Note that because there can be more responses than cases, the total can be more than 100%.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percent_of_n_in" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percent of N in</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Percentage of the number of cases for the specified grouping variable within categories
of other grouping variables. If you only have one grouping variable, this value is identical to
percentage of total number of cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percent_of_sum_in" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percent of sum in</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Percentage of the sum for the specified grouping variable within categories of other
grouping variables. If you only have one grouping variable, this value is identical to percentage of
total sum.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percent_of_total_n" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percent of total N</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Percentage of the total number of cases in each category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percent_of_total_sum" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percent of total sum</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Percentage of the total sum in each category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="percent_of_variance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Percent of Variance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is the proportion of the total variance in the data that is explained. It sums
across variables within a dimension, but not across dimensions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="performance_indices" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Performance Indices</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Measures of the performance of the process. Most of these statistics are based upon the
estimated standard deviation of the process and/or the specification limits.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gacf10" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Periodicity</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Repetitive cyclical variation of units within a period. For example, months have a
periodicity of 12 within a year, and days have a periodicity of 7 within a week.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gspectra01" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Periodogram</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Unsmoothed plot of spectral amplitude (plotted on a logarithmic scale) against either
frequency or period. Low-frequency variation characterizes a smooth series. Variation spread evenly
across all frequencies indicates "white noise."</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="permutations" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Permutations</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The original crosstabulation reordered according to the scores of the rows and columns
for each dimension.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="phase" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Phase</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Phase of the analysis for which results are reported</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="phase_spectrum" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Phase spectrum</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of the extent to which each frequency component of one series leads or lags
the other.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="phi_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Phi</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A chi-square based measure of association that involves dividing the chi-square
statistic by the sample size and taking the square root of the result. For 2x2 tables only, the phi
coefficient is equal to the Pearson correlation coefficient, so phi ranges from -1 to +1. For tables
in which one dimension is greater than 2, phi need not be bounded by 0 and 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="phi" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Phi</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A chi-square based measure of association. For 2x2 tables only, the phi coefficient is
equal to the Pearson correlation coefficient, so phi ranges from -1 to +1. For tables in which one
dimension is greater than 2, the value of Phi can exceed an absolute value of 1. For general
purposes, if either variable has more than two categories, the significance value is more important
that the actual value of the statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="phi_4-point_correlation_distance_and_proximity_measures" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Phi 4-Point Correlation (Distance and Proximity Measures)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A similarity measure for binary data that is the Pearson product-moment correlation
coefficient for the binary case, with a range of 0 to 1. Computed from a fourfold table as
(ad-bc)/SQRT((a+b)(a+c)(b+d)(c+d)) where a represents cases present on both items, b and c represent
cases present on one item but absent on the other, and d represents cases absent on both items.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="phi_and_cramers_v" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Phi and Cramer's V</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Phi is a chi-square-based measure of association that involves dividing the chi-square
statistic by the sample size and taking the square root of the result. Cramer's V is a measure of
association based on chi-square.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="phi-square_distance_measure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Phi-Square Distance Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Dissimilarity measure for frequency count data that attempts to take sample size into
account to decrease the effect of actual observed frequencies on the value of the measure. This is
the chi-square measure normalized by the square root of the combined frequency. Therefore, its value
does not depend on the total frequencies of the two items whose distance is computed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pie_chart" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Pie Chart</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A chart that divides a circle into wedge-shaped slices. The size of each slice
indicates the value of that category relative to the whole.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pillais_trace" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Pillai's Trace</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A multivariate test of significance. It can be transformed to approximate an F
statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="plan_file" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Plan File</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A plan file contains complex sample specifications.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="plot_models" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Plot Models</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Plots the values of the dependent variable and each selected model against the
independent variable. A separate chart is produced for each dependent variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="plots" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Plots</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Requests optional plots, including box plots, histograms, normality plots and tests,
and spread-versus-level plots with the Levene statistic. You must choose to display either Plots or
Both before you can request optional plots.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="plots_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Plots</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Requests optional plots, including scatterplots, histograms, normal probability plots
and outlier plots.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="plots_checkbox" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Plots Checkbox</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays plots. To suppress plots, deselect this item.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="plots_pushbutton" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Plots Pushbutton</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to display a dendrogram or control the format of icicle plots.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="plots_radio_button" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Plots Radio Button</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays plots only, and suppresses all statistics. Box plots and stem-and-leaf plots
for each variable are displayed by default.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pmml_data_type" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PMML Data Type</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The possible values are string and double.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pmml_display_name" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PMML Display Name</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variable label if provided.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pmml_measurement_level" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PMML Measurement Level</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Referred to as the optype in PMML. The possible values are categorical, ordinal, and
continuous.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="point_estimate" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Point Estimate</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Value that serves as a best estimate of an unknown population parameter. </ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="point_probability" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Point Probability</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The probability of the observed statistic under the null hypothesis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="poisson" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Poisson</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The observed cumulative distribution function is compared to the Poisson distribution
with the observed mean as a parameter.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="poisson_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Poisson</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A discrete distribution useful for describing the outcomes of a random variable. The
outcomes are any non-negative integers. The mean and the variance of a Poisson distribution are
equal. The Poisson model assumes that the observations are independent Poisson random variables with
different means. Choose this distribution if the total sample size is not fixed and the cells are
independent.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="poisson_distribution" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Poisson Distribution</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A skewed distribution appropriate and useful for phenomena that have a very small
probability of occurring on any particular trial, but for which an extremely large number of trials
are available (while the product of the two numbers is moderate). The mean and the variance of a
Poisson distribution are equal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="poisson_parameters" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Poisson Parameters</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The parameters of the Poisson distribution against which the observed distribution is
being tested.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="polychotomous" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">polychotomous</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A term for a variable that has a discrete number of values; a categorical
variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="polynomial_and_degree" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Polynomial and Degree</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to partition the between-groups sum of squares into polynomial trend
components. After selecting Polynomial, select the highest degree of the polynomial you want to
model. You can choose a degree up to 5.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="polynomial_contrast" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Polynomial Contrast</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Compares the linear effect, quadratic effect, cubic effect, and so on. The first degree
of freedom contains the linear effect across all categories; the second degree of freedom, the
quadratic effect; and so on. These contrasts are often used to estimate polynomial trends.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="polynomial_contrast_metric" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Polynomial Contrast Metric</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The metric of a polynomial contrast indicates the spacing of the levels. The default
(1,2,3...) indicates equal spacing. The relative differences between the terms of the metric
indicate the spacing of the levels. For example, for dosages of 20mg, 30mg, 50mg, and 80mg, the
metric could be specified as (1,2,4,7), whereas for 20mg, 30mg, 40mg, and 50mg, the metric would be
(1,2,3,4).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="polynomial_contrasts" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Polynomial Contrasts</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">In a polynomial contrast, the first degree of freedom contains the linear effect across
the categories of the predictor variable or factor; the second contains the quadratic effect, and so
on. Categories are assumed to be evenly spaced.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pooled_over_strata" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Pooled Over Strata</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Compares all factor levels in a single test to test the equality of survival
curves.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pooled_variance_estimate" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Pooled Variance Estimate</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The test of the hypothesis that two population means are equal computed under the
assumption that the two groups come from populations with the same variance.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="population_size" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Population Size</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of units in the population at this stage.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="population_subject_size" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Population Subject Size</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of sujects in the entire population.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="portmanteau_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Portmanteau Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A test statistic that tests the null hypothesis that a set of autocorrelations are
associated with a random series. This is referred to as a portmanteau lack-of-fit test.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="position_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Position</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Position of the variable in the data file (first variable is 1, second variable is 2,
etc.)</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="positive" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Positive</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cases that are positive; that is, fall into the category of interest.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="positive_differences" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Positive Differences</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the number of positive differences. The number of times variable 1 is greater
than variable 2.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="positive_extreme_differences" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Positive Extreme Differences</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The largest positive difference between two cumulative distribution functions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="positive_if_greater_than_cutoff" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Positive if greater than cutoff</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the Test Variable is considered "Positive" if it is greater than BUT NOT
equal to the cutoff.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="positive_if_greater_than_or_equal_to_cutoff" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Positive if greater than or equal to cutoff</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the Test Variable is considered "Positive" if it is greater than OR equal
to the cutoff.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="positive_if_less_than_cutoff" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Positive if less than cutoff</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the Test Variable is considered "Positive" if it is less than BUT NOT
equal to the cutoff.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="positive_if_less_than_or_equal_to_cutoff" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Positive if less than or equal to cutoff</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the Test Variable is considered "Positive" if it is less than OR equal to
the cutoff.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="positive_ranks" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Positive Ranks</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">List the number of positive ranks. The number of times the rank of variable 1 is
greater than the rank of variable 2.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="post_hoc" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Post Hoc</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to choose post hoc tests for pairwise multiple comparisons between means or
range tests.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="power_actual" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Actual Power</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The actual power for the specified sample based on Fisher's z-transformation and normal 
approximation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="power" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Power</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Estimate the power of a study given certain test conditions and parameters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="power_f" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Power</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The power for the overall test, based on the non-central distribution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="power_normal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Power</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The power for the test of proportion, based on normal approximation, normal 
approximation with continuity correction, or binomial enumeration.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="power_normal_binomial" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Power</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The power for the test of proportion, based on either normal approximation or binomial 
enumeration (depending on the estimation method and sample size). 
</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="power_pearson" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Power</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The power for the test of proportion, based on the Pearson Chi-Square test, the Student’s t-test, 
the likelihood ratio test, or Fisher’s exact test.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="power_sample" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Power</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The nondirectional or directional power for sample size estimation, based on the non-central t-distribution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="power_t" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Power</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The power for the overall ANOVA test, based on the non-central t-distribution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="power_ttest" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Power</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The power for a related-sample directional or non-directional t-test.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="power_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Power</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The power is used in conjunction with the source variable to compute weights. The
weights are equal to 1/(weight variable)**power.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="power_estimation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Power Estimation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Plots the natural logs of the interquartile ranges against the natural logs of the
medians for each group, as well as an estimate of the power transformation for achieving equal
variances in the cells. This method can aid in the determination of an appropriate transformation
for your data.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="power_full_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Full</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The squared multiple correlation coefficients for the full model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="power_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Power Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Model whose equation is Y = b0 * (t**b1) or ln(Y) = ln(b0) + (b1 * ln(t)).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="power_nested_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Nested</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The squared multiple correlation coefficients for the nested model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="power_range_wls" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Power Range</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is used in conjunction with the weight variable to compute weights. Several
regression equations will be fit, one for each value in the power range. The values entered in the
Power range test box and the through text box must be between -6.5 and 7.5, inclusive. The power
values range from the low to high value, in increments determined by the value specified. The total
number of values in the power range is limited to 150.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pp" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PP</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Performance of the process, which is the ratio of the difference between the upper
specification limit and the lower specification limit to six times the estimated standard deviation
of the process.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ppk" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PpK</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Performance of process related to both dispersion and centeredness. It is the minimum
of PpU and PpL.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ppl" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PpL</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The distance between the process mean and the lower specification limit scaled by
process standard deviation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ppm" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PpM</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An index relating process variance and the difference between the process mean and the
target value. A target value must be specified to obtain this statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ppu" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PpU</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The distance between the process mean and the upper specification limit scaled by
process standard deviation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pr" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PR</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The reciprocal of the process performance.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="practical_significance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">practical significance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A statistical test will answer the question, "Is there a difference between two
groups?" but not the follow-up "Is that difference large enough for me to care?" It is up to you to
determine whether test results are useful to your situation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="prais-winsten_method" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Prais-Winsten</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A generalized least-squares method for estimating a regression equation whose errors
follow a first-order autoregressive process. It cannot be used when a series contains embedded
missing values. Generally, the Prais-Winsten method is preferable to the Cochrane-Orcutt
method.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="prd" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PRD</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The price-related differential, also known as the index of regressivity, is the result
of dividing the mean by the weighted mean.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry xml:lang="en-us" id="precision">
<glossterm>
<term>Precision</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph>The number of True Positive divided by (the number of True Positive + the number of False
Positive).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="predicted_category_tree" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Predicted category</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">For each case, the predicted category is the category of the dependent variable
predicted by the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="predicted_frequency" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Predicted Frequency</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number or percentage of cases that are predicted to match a particular covariate
pattern.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="predicted_group" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Predicted group</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The predicted group membership</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="predicted_group_membership" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Predicted Group Membership</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The group with the largest posterior probability, based on discriminant scores. The
group the model predicts the case belongs to.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="predicted_mean_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Predicted mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Predicted mean value of the dependent variable. Frequency and influence weights, if
any, are involved in its calculation. (In contrast, the column labeled Mean is calculated using only
the frequency weights, if any.)</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="predicted_mean" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Predicted Mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays mean for each factor level expressed as deviations from the grand mean. These
allow you to assess the magnitude of the effect of each category of a factor.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="predicted_probabilities_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Predicted probabilities</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Probability that the predicted value is correct.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="predicted_value_general_loglinear" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Predicted Value (General Loglinear)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Also known as expected cell count, this is the number of observations in that cell
estimated from the sample under a specified model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="predicted_values_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Predicted values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Values predicted by the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="predicted_values" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Predicted Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value the model predicts for the dependent variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="predicted_values_nonlin" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Predicted Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Saves predicted values with the variable name pred_.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="predict_from_estimation_period_through_last_case_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Predict from estimation period through last case</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Predicts values for all cases from the estimation period through the end of the file
but does not create new cases. If you are analyzing a range of cases that start after the beginning
of the file, cases prior to that range are not predicted. If no estimation period has been defined,
all cases are used to predict values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="predict_from_estimation_period_through_last_case" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Predict from estimation period through last case</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Predicts values for all cases in the file, based on the cases in the estimation period.
The estimation period is displayed at the bottom of the dialog box. Available only if Predicted
values is selected.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="prediction_interval_for_individual" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Prediction Interval for Individual</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lower and upper bounds (two variables) for the prediction interval of the dependent
variable for a single case.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="prediction_interval_for_mean" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Prediction Interval for Mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lower and upper bounds (two variables) for the prediction interval of the mean of the
dependent variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="prediction_intervals" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Prediction Intervals</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Saves the upper and lower bounds (two variables) for the prediction interval of each
case for each selected model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="predictor_added" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Predictor Added</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The predictor added to each subsequent subset is the one that increases the average
log-likelihood the most.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="predictor_importance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Predictor Importance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Measures how strongly a variable acts as a primary or surrogate predictor. Equals the
weighted sum across all nodes in the tree of the improvements that the variable has when it is used
as a primary or surrogate predictor.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="predictor_variables" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Predictor Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Independent variables. Variables that are used to predict the values of another
variable in a model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="predict_through" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Predict through</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">After selecting this option, enter the observation number through which you would like
to predict values. This can be used to forecast values beyond the last case in the time series.
Available only if you selected Time as the independent variable and Predicted values is
selected.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="predict_through_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Predict through</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Predicts values through the specified date, time, or observation number, based on the
cases in the estimation period. This can be used to forecast values beyond the last case in the time
series. The text boxes that are available for specifying the end of the prediction period depend on
the currently defined date variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="predictors_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test Predictors</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of either the test predictors or the predictors in the nested model, not 
including the intercept (if applicable).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="predictors_total" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Total Predictors</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of either the total predictors or the predictors in the full model, not including
 the intercept (if applicable).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="previous-next-block" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Previous-Next-Block</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to specify different entry methods for different subsets of variables. To
add a second block of variables to the regression model, click Next. To move back and forth between
blocks of independent variables, use Previous and Next.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="prev_next_block_logreg" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Previous-Next-Block (Cox Regression/Logistic Regression)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to specify different entry methods for different blocks of covariates. To
add a second block of covariates to the regression model, click Next. To move back and forth between
blocks of covariates, use Previous and Next.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="previous-next-contrast" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Previous-Next-Contrast</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to specify up to 10 sets of contrasts. Use Next and Previous to move between
sets of contrasts.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="previous-next-layer" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Previous-Next-Layer</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Selected variables divide the crosstabulation into sub-groups. For example, a
crosstabulation of region and profitability could be further sub-divided by product line. Selected
variables should be categorical (variables with a few distinct values).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="previous-next-scatter" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Previous-Next-Scatter</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to obtain up to nine different scatterplots. Select one X variable and one Y
variable. To request additional plots, click Next and repeat this process. Previous displays the
variables for the scatterplot in the previous layer.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="primary_predictor" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Primary predictor</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The independent variable (predictor) used to split the parent node.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="principal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Principal</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The distances between row points and column points are approximations of the selected
distance measure. Use this method if you want to examine differences between categories of either or
both variables instead of differences between the two variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="principal_axis_factoring" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Principal Axis Factoring</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A method of extracting factors from the original correlation matrix, with squared
multiple correlation coefficients placed in the diagonal as initial estimates of the communalities.
These factor loadings are used to estimate new communalities that replace the old communality
estimates in the diagonal. Iterations continue until the changes in the communalities from one
iteration to the next satisfy the convergence criterion for extraction.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="principal_components_analysis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Principal Components Analysis</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A factor extraction method used to form uncorrelated linear combinations of the
observed variables. The first component has maximum variance. Successive components explain
progressively smaller portions of the variance and are all uncorrelated with each other. Principal
components analysis is used to obtain the initial factor solution. It can be used when a correlation
matrix is singular.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="print_all_layers" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Print All Layers</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Prints each layer as a separate table.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="prior_probability_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Prior probability</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Estimates of the overall relative frequency for each target category of the dependent
variable prior to knowing anything about the values of the independent (predictor) variables. Using
prior probabilities helps correct any tree growth caused by data in the sample that is not
representative of the entire population. User-specified values are normalized to proportions that
sum to 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="prior_probability" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Prior Probability</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An estimate of the likelihood that a case belongs to a particular group when no other
information about it is available. Unless you specify otherwise, it is assumed that a case is
equally likely to be a member of any group. That is, all prior probabilities are equal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="predicted_probabilities" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Probabilities</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">For each case, saves the predicted probability of occurrence of the event. A table in
the output displays name and contents of any new variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="probabilities_of_group_membership" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Probabilities of Group Membership</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Creates as many variables as there are groups. The first variable contains the
posterior probability of membership in the first group, the second new variable contains the
probability of membership in the second group, and so on.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="probability" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Probability</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The model-estimated probability of response used to calculate the number of expected
responses.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="probability_density" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Probability Density</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An estimate of the probability of experiencing the terminal event during the
interval.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="probability_for_stepwise" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Probability for Stepwise</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A variable is entered into the model if the probability of its score statistic is less
than the Entry value and is removed if the probability is greater than the Removal value. To
override the default settings, enter positive values for Entry and Removal. Entry must be less than
Removal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="probability_tables" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Probability Tables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Statistical tables that contain critical values which can be used to assess the
significance level of observed results. Frequently used tables are often found in basic statistics
books.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="probit_prob" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PROBIT(prob)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">PROBIT(prob). Numeric. Returns the value in a standard normal distribution having a
cumulative probability equal to prob. The argument prob is a probability greater than 0 and less
than 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="probit_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Probit Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Applies the probit transformation (the inverse of the cumulative standard normal
distribution function) to the response proportions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="processed" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Processed</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases evaluated. The number of cases used is the number processed minus
the number excluded.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gcontrol07" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Process Line (Control Charts)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Plots the quality characteristic under consideration. The process is either measured
over time, or over a number of samples. If a process is in control, the process line should be
random, centered around the center line, and the points should fall within the control limits.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="produce_all_partial_plots" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Produce All Partial Plots</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Produces a scatterplot (for each independent variable) of residuals of the dependent
variable and an independent variable when both variables are regressed separately on the rest of the
independent variables. At least two independent variables must be in the equation to produce a
partial plot.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="profiles" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Profiles</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Row and column profiles are the row and column proportions for each cell, based on the
marginal totals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="profit_tree" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Profit (Tree)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The average profit value for the node. For each dependent variable category, multiply
the proportion of cases in the category by the profit value assigned to the category. Then sum
across the categories to get the average profit value for the node.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="projected_centroids" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Projected Centroids</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The projected centroids are the category centroid values mapped to a straight
line.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="promax_rotation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Promax Rotation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An oblique rotation, which allows factors to be correlated. This rotation can be
calculated more quickly than a direct oblimin rotation, so it is useful for large datasets.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="properties_dimension" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Properties Dimension</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The dimension (row, column, or layer) of the table into which are placed the properties
assigned to the levels of the factors.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="proportion" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Proportion</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The ratio of the number of successes to the number of trials for a binary response.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="proportional_reduction_in_error" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Proportional Reduction in Error</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A criterion used to measure the association between two variables. It is the
proportional change in error when predicting the values of the dependent variable based only on its
distribution, and when predicting it based on knowledge of the independent variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="proportion_estimates_rank_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Proportion Estimates (Rank Cases)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Estimates of the cumulative proportion of the distribution corresponding to a
particular rank.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="proportion_explained_prefscal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Proportion Explained (prefscal)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The proportion of the total inertia explained by the dimension.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="proportion_of_inertia" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Proportion of inertia</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The proportion of the total inertia for each dimension.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="proportion_of_units_sampled" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Proportion of Units Sampled</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The user-specified proportion of sampling units drawn at this stage.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="proportion_surviving" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Proportion Surviving</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">One minus the proportion terminating.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="proportion_terminating" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Proportion Terminating</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The ratio of terminal events to the number exposed to risk.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pseudo_-2_log-likelihood" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Pseudo -2 Log-Likelihood</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">In complex sampling situations, the pseudo-likelihood is a sample estimate of the
population log-likelihood, and parameter estimates are derived by maximizing the pseudo-likelihood.
The pseudo -2 log-likelihood is a measure of how well the model fits the data. The smaller the
value, the better the fit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pseudo-bic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Pseudo-BIC</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A "best" subset criterion based on the average log-likelihood of the training data.
Smaller values indicate better subsets.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pseudo_r-square" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Pseudo R-Square</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An approximation to the R-square goodness-of-fit measure of a linear model. It ranges
in value from 0 to 1. Small values indicate that the model does not fit the data well.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_adjusted_ssq_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL adjusted SSQ (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Adjusted sum of squares of the model residuals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_ar_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL AR (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of autoregressive parameters in the model. Each parameter measures the
independent effect of values with a specified lag. Thus, an autoregressive order of 2 means that a
series value is affected by the preceding two values (independently of one another).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_autocorrelation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL autocorrelation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Correlations of a series with lagged values of itself; also known as serial
correlation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_acf_box-ljung_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL Box-Ljung Value (ACF)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Value of the Box-Ljung statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_cases_skipped_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL cases skipped (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of cases skipped due to missing values at the beginning or end of the
series.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_cases_skipped_begin_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL cases skipped begin (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of cases skipped due to missing values at the beginning of the series.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_cases_skipped_end_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL cases skipped end (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of cases skipped due to missing values at the end of the series.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_cases_skipped_in_series_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL cases skipped in series (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of cases skipped due to missing values imbedded within the series.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_command_names_tdisplay" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL command names (TDISPLAY)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Name of procedure associated with model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_computable_first_lags" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL computable first lags</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of 1st order lags that can be computed, based on the number of valid cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_computable_first_lags_differencing" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL computable first lags differencing</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of 1st order lags that can be computed taking into account number of valid cases
and degree of differencing.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_computable_zero_corr_differencing" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL computable zero corr differencing</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of zero order correlations that can be computed taking into account number of
valid cases and degree of differencing.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_computing_method_season" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL computing method (SEASON)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Method in effect when computing moving averages.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_confidence_interval_tshow" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL confidence interval (TSHOW)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Shows the setting of CIN for the TSET command. This is the setting for confidence
intervals given as a percentage.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_constant_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL constant (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">In MA models, the constant is the mean level of the series. In AR(1) models, the
constant is a trend parameter. When a series has been differenced, these interpretations apply to
the differences.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_constant_tshow" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL constant (TSHOW)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the setting for whether a constant term is used in analyses.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_convergence_tshow" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL convergence (TSHOW)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Shows the setting of CNVERGE for the TSET command. If successive iterations fail to
change the sum of squares by this proportion, the procedure stops.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_cross_correlations" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL cross correlations</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The correlations between the two series at the specified lags and leads.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_date_id_vars_tshow" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL date id vars (TSHOW)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variables generated by the DATE command. Date identification variables are used to
label plots and other output, establish periodicity, and distinguish between historical, validation,
and forecasting periods.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_dependent_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL dependent (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variable label (or variable name) of dependent variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_df_residuals_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL df residuals (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Degrees of freedom associated with the model residuals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_display_and_plot" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL Display and Plot</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies whether correlations are displayed at all lags or only at periodic lags
(applies only to time series with a defined periodicity).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_forecasted_cases_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL forecasted cases (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of cases forecast beyond the range of the current data.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_from_ccf" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL From (CCF)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Maximum negative lag (second series leading).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_from_tshow" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL from (TSHOW)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Designates the beginning of a range of cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_id_tshow" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL ID (TSHOW)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Shows the setting of ID for the TSET command. This specifies a variable whose values
are used to label observations in plots. If ID is not specified, the DATE_ variable is used to label
observations.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_independent_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL independent (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variable labels (or variable names) of any independent variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_level_exsmooth" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL level (EXSMOOTH)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Series level. Applies to models without damped trend.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_level_phi_exsmooth" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL level phi (EXSMOOTH)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Initial series level for the specific Phi value in the presence of a damped trend
component.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_ma_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL MA (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of moving average orders in the model. A moving average is the average of a
series value with surrounding series values. Moving averages are used to smooth a time series--that
is, reduce noise or fluctuation in the series.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_marquardt_termination_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL marquardt termination (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Iteration terminates when the maximum Marquardt constant is larger than this
value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_max_auto_lags_tshow" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL max auto lags (TSHOW)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Shows the setting of MXAUTO for the TSET command. This is the maximum number of lags
used in autocorrelation and partial autocorrelation plots.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_max_cross_lags_tshow" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL max cross lags (TSHOW)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Shows the setting of MXCROSS for the TSET command. This is the maximum number of lags
used in cross-correlation plots.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_max_iterations_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL max iterations (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Maximum number of iterations.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_max_new_cases_tshow" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL max new cases (TSHOW)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Shows the setting of MXPREDICT for the TSET command. This is the maximum number of new
cases that can be added to the active dataset per procedure when the PREDICT command is used.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_max_new_vars_tshow" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL max new vars (TSHOW)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Shows the setting of MXNEWVARS for the TSET command. This is the maximum number of new
variables that can be generated by a procedure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_model_exsmooth" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL model (EXSMOOTH)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Designates a custom exponential smoothing model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_model_input_file_name" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL model input file name</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Path to model file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_model_label_tdisplay" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL model label (TDISPLAY)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">User-specified model label.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_model_missing_handling" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL model missing handling</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies the treatment of missing values, encountered during the scoring process, for
the predictor variables defined in the model. SYSMIS means return the system-missing value.
SUBSTITUTE means use value substitution (if supported).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_model_rank_exsmooth" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL model rank (EXSMOOTH)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Ranking given to model based on sum of squared errors. The model with the lowest sum of
squared errors is given the rank of 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_model_std._error_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL model std. Error (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The standard error of the model estimates.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_model_type_season" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL model type (SEASON)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The type of model, either multiplicative or additive. For additive seasonality,
seasonal adjustments are added to the seasonally adjusted series to obtain the original series. For
multiplicative seasonality, the seasonal component is a factor by which the seasonally adjusted
series is multiplied to yield the original series.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_model_validation_handling" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL model validation handling</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies whether data validation checking is enabled (default is enabled). Validation
checking includes checking that data is of the correct type as well as checking that the data values
are in the set of allowed values defined in the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_model_variable_label" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL model variable label</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variable label from model file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_model_variable_measurement" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL model variable measurement</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Level of measurement of variable from model file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_model_variable_name" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL model variable name</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variable name from model file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_model_variables" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL model variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Properties of variables from model file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_model_variable_type" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL model variable type</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variable type from model file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_model_variable_width" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL model variable width</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variable width from model file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_new_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL new cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of new cases added to the data file as a result of forecasting beyond the end of
the current data.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_new_variables_tshow" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL new variables (TSHOW)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Shows the setting of NEWVAR for the TSET command. NONE means no new variables are
created. ALL creates new variables without replacing existing ones. For CURRENT, the new series are
saved as temporary variables in the active dataset and any existing temporary variables created by
Forecasting commands are dropped.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_non-seasonal_differencing" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL Non-seasonal differencing</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Degree of non-seasonal differencing specified for the analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_non-seasonal_lags_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL non-seasonal lags (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Values for non-seasonal autoregressive and moving-average orders.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_number_parameters_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL number parameters (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of autoregressive and moving-average parameters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_number_residuals_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL number residuals (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of model residuals. This number is reduced by including differencing
transformations.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_original_minus_moving_average_season" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL original minus moving average (SEASON)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">For additive seasonality, this is the difference between the original series and the
moving average series.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_original_series" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL original series</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Case by case listing of the original series.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_output_amount_tshow" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL output amount (TSHOW)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Shows the setting of the PRINT subcommand of the TSET command. For procedures with
multiple iterations, BRIEF generally means that final statistics are displayed with no iteration
history. DEFAULT provides a one-line summary at each iteration in addition to the final statistics.
DETAILED provides a complete summary of each iteration (where necessary) plus the final
statistics.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_parameter_change_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL parameter change (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Iteration stops if no parameter changes by more than this value from one iteration to
the next.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_period_heading_season" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL period heading (SEASON)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number indexing the seasonal factors from 1 to the specified periodicity.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_predict_tshow" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL predict (TSHOW)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies the observations that mark the beginning and end of the forecast period. The
range is set with the PREDICT command.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_range_of_lags_ccf" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL Range of Lags (CCF)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Range of positive and negative lags for which output is produced.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_ratio_original_to_moving_average_season" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL ratio original to moving average (SEASON)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">For multiplicative seasonality, this is the ratio of the original series to the moving
average series, expressed as a percentage.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_regression_coeff_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL regression coeff (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Regression coefficients, if any, for any independent variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_regression_tolerance_tshow" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL regression tolerance (TSHOW)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Shows the setting of TOLER for the TSET command. Tolerance is the proportion of the
variance of a variable that is not accounted for by other independent variables in the
equation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_rejected_log_transform_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL rejected log transform (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of cases rejected when applying a log transform to the data. Cases with negative
values and values of zero cannot be log-transformed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_residual_ssq_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL residual SSQ (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Sum of squares of the model residuals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_residual_variance_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL residual variance (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variance of the model residuals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_rho_areg" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL rho (AREG)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Value of the first-order autoregressive parameter.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_seasonal_ar_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL seasonal AR (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of seasonal autoregressive parameters in the model. Seasonal components work
just like their nonseasonal counterparts, but they "skip over" the seasonal interval. For example, a
seasonal order 1 AR process would model a given value based on the value lagged by the seasonal
interval.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_seasonal_differencing" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL seasonal differencing</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Degree of seasonal differencing specified for analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_seasonal_differencing_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL seasonal differencing (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Degree of seasonal differencing specified for the analysis. Seasonal components work
just like their nonseasonal counterparts, but they "skip over" the seasonal interval.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_seasonal_factor" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL seasonal factor</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Seasonal factors for additive seasonality. The seasonal adjustments are added to the
seasonally adjusted series to obtain the observed values. Observations without seasonal variation
have a seasonal component of 0.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_seasonal_indices_exsmooth" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL seasonal indices (EXSMOOTH)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The set of seasonal factors. The number of seasonal factors is equal to the length of
the seasonal period.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_seasonality_exsmooth" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL seasonality (EXSMOOTH)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Type of seasonality associated with selected model. For additive seasonality, seasonal
adjustments are added to the seasonally adjusted series to obtain the original series. For
multiplicative seasonality, the seasonal component is a factor by which the seasonally adjusted
series is multiplied to yield the original series.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_seasonal_lags_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL seasonal lags (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Values for seasonal autoregressive and moving-average orders.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_seasonal_ma_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL seasonal MA (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of seasonal moving average orders in the model. Seasonal components work
just like their nonseasonal counterparts, but they "skip over" the seasonal interval.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_season_seasonal_pct" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL season seasonal %</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Seasonal factors for multiplicative seasonality. The seasonal component is a factor by
which the seasonally adjusted series is multiplied to yield the original series. Observations
without seasonal variation have a seasonal component of 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_series_length" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL Series Length</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of cases in series. Excludes any cases that have been filtered out.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_series_name" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL Series Name</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variable label (or variable name) of variable used in analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_series_pair_ccf" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL series pair (CCF)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The two series whose cross-correlations are shown.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_simple_seasonal_exsmooth" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL simple seasonal (EXSMOOTH)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A model with no trend component and an additive seasonal component.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_sse_exsmooth" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL SSE (EXSMOOTH)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Sum of the squared differences between the predicted and observed series values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_ssq_termination_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL SSQ termination (ARIMA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A relative change in the adjusted sum of squares by less than this amount causes
termination.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_standard_error_method" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL Standard Error Method</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Method used for calculating the standard errors of the autocorrelations.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_std_errors_autocorr_tshow" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL std errors autocorr (TSHOW)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Shows the setting of ACFSE for the TSET command. Specifies the method of calculating
the standard errors for autocorrelations. The IND (independence model) method assumes the underlying
process is white noise. The MA method is based on Bartlett's approximation. With this method,
appropriate where the true MA order of the process is k-1, standard errors grow at increased
lags.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_system_missing" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL system missing</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of cases identified with system-missing values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_time_series_settings_tshow" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL time series settings (TSHOW)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Global parameters to be used by procedures that analyze time series and sequence
variables. These are set with the TSET command.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_time_series_transformation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL Time Series Transformation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Transformation, if any, applied to time series.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_to_ccf" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL To (CCF)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Maximum positive lag (first series leading).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_to_tshow" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL to (TSHOW)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Designates the end of a range of cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_trend_exsmooth" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL trend (EXSMOOTH)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Trend coefficient. Applies to models with linear or exponential trend.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_trend_phi_exsmooth" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL trend phi (EXSMOOTH)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Initial series trend for the specific Phi value in the presence of a damped trend
component.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_use_tshow" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL use (TSHOW)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Designates the range of observations used. The range is set with the USE command.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_user_missing" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL user missing</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of cases identified with user-missing values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_user-missing_tshow" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL user-missing (TSHOW)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Shows the setting of MISSING for the TSET command. This controls the treatment of
user-missing values. INCLUDE indicates that observations with user-missing values should be treated
as valid values and included in analyses. EXCLUDE indicates that observations with user-missing
values should be excluded from analyses.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_valid_values" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL Valid Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Series length minus number of cases with missing values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_values_lost_to_differencing" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL values lost to differencing</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of values lost due to seasonal and non-seasonal differencing.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_spss_variables" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variable in active dataset associated with variable from model file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_winters_additive_exsmooth" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL Winter's Additive (EXSMOOTH)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A model that assumes that the series has a linear trend and an additive seasonal
variation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ptbl_with_ccf" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PTBL With (CCF)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Every series listed before WITH is paired with every series associated with the WITH
label.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pure_error" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Pure Error</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays results for variation due to pure error. This is the component of the error
sum of squares due to pure error. If the current model is appropriate, the sum of squares due to
pure error will be large.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="p_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">p value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Also known as a significance value. Most statistical tests, regardless of the statistic
used in the calculation of the test, report significance values that lie on a common scale from 0 to
1. Decreasing significance values indicate evidence against the null hypothesis. Generally, values
less than 0.05 mean the data are inconsistent with the null; values greater than 0.10 mean the data
are consistent with the null.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pzl" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PZL</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of standard deviations between the process mean and the lower specification
limit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pzlout" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PZLOUT</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The estimated percentage outside the lower specification limit. The standard normal
approximation is based on Z-lower.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pzmax" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PZMAX</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The maximum number of standard deviations between the process mean and the
specification limits.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pzmin" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PZMIN</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The minimum number of standard deviations between the process mean and the
specification limits.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pzout" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PZOUT</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The estimated percentage outside the specification limits. The standard normal
approximation is based on the Z-upper and Z-lower.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pzu" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PZU</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of standard deviations between the process mean and the upper specification
limit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="pzuout" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">PZUOUT</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The estimated percentage outside the upper specification limit. The standard normal
approximation is based on Z-upper.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="quadratic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Quadratic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Tests the quadratic effects across all levels.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="quadratic_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Quadratic Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Model whose equation is Y = b0 + (b1 * t) + (b2 * t**2). The quadratic model can be
used to model a series that "takes off" or a series that dampens.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="quadratic_regression_scatterplot_options" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Quadratic Regression (Scatterplot Options)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A least-squares regression curve, including a squared term, that best fits the data
points on the scatterplot.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="quadratic_term_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Quadratic Term</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The fixed effects that are involved in the quadratic term in the expected mean square.
The term is quadratic in the estimable function of an effect.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="quadratic_term" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Quadratic Term</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the results of the 2nd-degree polynomial term. A 2nd-degree polynomial term is
the term with a variable raised to the 2nd power.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="quadrature_spectrum" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Quadrature spectrum</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The imaginary part of the cross-periodogram, which is a measure of the correlation of
the out-of-phase frequency components of two time series. The components are out of phase by pi/2
radians.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gquantile" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Quantiles</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Values that divide the cases into some number of equal-sized groups.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="quartiles" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Quartiles</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays values corresponding to the 25th, 50th, and 75th percentiles.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="quartimax_method" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Quartimax Method</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A rotation method that minimizes the number of factors needed to explain each variable.
This method simplifies the interpretation of the observed variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="quasi_likelihood_under_independence_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Quasi Likelihood under Independence Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The linear model parameter estimates, computed under the hypothesized working
correlation structure, are used to compute the value of a "quasi-likelihood" function that assumes
an independent correlation structure and known scale parameter.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="quasi_likelihood_under_independence_model_criterion" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Quasi Likelihood under Independence Model Criterion (QIC)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure for choosing between two correlation structures, given a set of model terms.
Smaller values indicate better models.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="quest" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">QUEST</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Quick, Unbiased, Efficient Statistical Tree. A method that is fast and avoids other
methods' bias in favor of predictors with many categories. QUEST can be specified only if the
dependent variable is nominal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="r" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">R</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The multiple correlation coefficient is the linear correlation between the observed and
model-predicted values of the dependent variable. It ranges in value from -1 to +1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="random_effects" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Random Effects</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Model effects for which the factor levels are considered to be a random sample of
possible levels about which conclusions are wanted.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="random_effects_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Random Effects Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A model in which the factor levels are considered to be a random sample of possible
levels about which conclusions are wanted. Also called a variance component model. The standard
error and 95% confidence interval for the mean are computed differently in a random effects model.
If you have a warning that the estimate of the variance under the random effects model is negative,
this means that your within-groups sum of squares is larger than your between-groups sum of
squares.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="random_start" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Random Start</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The seed and normalized raw stress are displayed for each random start. The start with
the lowest stress is used as the initial configuration.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="range_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Range</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Inclusive range of values. Not available for string variables. Any user-missing values
within the range are included.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="range" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Range</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The difference between the largest and smallest values of a numeric variable, the
maximum minus the minimum.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="range_test_lo_hi_lo_hi_.." xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RANGE(test,lo,hi[,lo,hi,..])</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RANGE(test,lo,hi[,lo,hi,..]). Logical. Returns 1 or true if test is within any of the
inclusive range(s) defined by the pairs lo, hi. Arguments must be all numeric or all strings of the
same length, and each of the lo, hi pairs must be ordered with lo &lt;= hi. Note: For string values,
results can vary by locale even for the same set of characters, since the national collating
sequence is used. Language order, not ASCII order, determines where certain characters fall in the
sequence.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="range_bar_chart" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Range Bar Chart</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays bars that "float" to show the range between high and low values. In a simple
range bar chart, there is one bar for each category or case on the category axis. The high and low
values are defined by a variable with two categories, or by separate summary variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="range_of_solutions" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Range of Solutions</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays cluster memberships for a range of cluster solutions. Enter values
corresponding to the lowest and highest cluster solutions. Both values must be integers greater than
1, and the first value must be less than the second value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rank_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Rank</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The row rank or column rank. The maximum number of linearly independent rows or
columns.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rank_5" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Rank</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The rank according to the specified "best" criterion. The "best" has rank 1, the second
"best" has rank 2, and so on.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rank" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Rank</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The location of a case when the values of all cases are arranged from smallest to
largest.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rank_rank_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Rank (Rank Cases)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Simple rank. The value of the new variable equals its rank.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rank_assigned_to_ties" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Rank Assigned to Ties</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies the method used to handle tied values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rankit_probability_plot" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Rankit (Probability Plot)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Calculates the expected normal distribution using the formula (r-1/2) / n, where n is
the number of observations, and r is the rank, ranging from 1 to n.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rankit_rank_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Rankit (Rank Cases)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Uses the formula (r-1/2) / w, where w is the number of observations and r is the rank,
ranging from 1 to w.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ranks" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Ranks</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This dimension lists the negative and positive ranks, along with the number of tied
ranks, and the total number of pairs.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="raos_v" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Rao's V</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of the differences between group means. Also called the Lawley-Hotelling
trace. At each step, the variable that maximizes the increase in Rao's V is entered.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="raos_v_discriminant_analysis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Rao's V (Discriminant Analysis)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of the differences between group means. Also called the Lawley-Hotelling
trace. At each step, the variable that maximizes the increase in Rao's V is entered. After selecting
this option, enter the minimum value a variable must have to enter the analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ratio_estimate" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Ratio Estimate</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The estimate of the ratio of the numerator to the denominator.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ratio_of_aic_changes" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Ratio of AIC changes</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The ratio of the current AIC change to the AIC change for going from 1 to 2
clusters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ratio_of_bic_changes" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Ratio of BIC changes</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The ratio of the current BIC change to the BIC change for going from 1 to 2
clusters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ratio_of_d" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Ratio of d</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The ratio of the distance measures (Likelihood or Euclidean) for the next smaller model
to the distance measure for the given model. Thus, the ratio of distance measures for 4 clusters is
the ratio of the distance measure of the model with 3 clusters to the distance measure of the model
with 4 clusters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gratiovar" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Ratio Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Quantitative variables measured on a numeric scale in which distances between the
points on the scale can be compared meaningfully, and which have a true (non-arbitrary) zero
point.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="raw" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Raw</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Results for the original data scaling when analyzing a covariance matrix</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="reason" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Reason</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variable(s) that contribute the most to a case's classification as an anomaly.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry xml:lang="en-us" id="recall">
<glossterm>
<term>Recall</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph>The number of True Positive divided by (the number of True Positive + the number of False
Negative), which is equal to Sensitivilty.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="recoded_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Recoded Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variable value after recoding.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="reference_category_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Reference Category</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The category to which other levels are compared.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gaxis12" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Reference Line</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An optional line drawn on a bar chart, line chart or scatterplot to emphasize a
particular value on a scale or category axis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="reference_pattern" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Reference Pattern</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The baseline hazard and survival function are computed for "typical" values of the
predictors, in addition to any patterns you may have specified.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="regression_5" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Regression</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays means, correlation matrix, and covariance matrix, computed from estimates of
missing values derived from a regression algorithm.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="regression_anova" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">regression (ANOVA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The variation in the dependent variable that is explained by the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="regression_analysis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Regression Analysis</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Estimation of the linear relationship between a dependent variable and one or more
independent variables or covariates.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="regression_coefficients" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Regression Coefficients</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Regression coefficients used to compute the regression equation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="regression_method" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Regression Method</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A method for estimating factor score coefficients. The scores that are produced have a
mean of 0 and a variance equal to the squared multiple correlation between the estimated factor
scores and the true factor values. The scores may be correlated even when factors are
orthogonal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="regression_ss" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Regression SS</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The sum of squares information is displayed for the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="r-e-g-w_f_post_hoc" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">R-E-G-W F (Post Hoc)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Ryan-Einot-Gabriel-Welsch multiple stepdown procedure based on an F test.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="r-e-g-w_q_post_hoc" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">R-E-G-W Q (Post Hoc)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Ryan-Einot-Gabriel-Welsch multiple stepdown procedure based on the Studentized
range.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="relation_to_ranks_or_scores" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Relation to Ranks or Scores</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies the expected relationship between each factor and the rankings or scores.
DISCRETE means no assumption is made. LINEAR means that a linear relationship is expected. IDEAL and
ANTIIDEAL mean that a quadratic relationship is expected.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="relative_median_potency" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Relative Median Potency</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the ratio of median potencies for each pair of factor levels. Also shows 95%
confidence limits for each relative median potency. Relative median potencies are not available if
you do not have a factor variable or if you have more than one covariate.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="relative_risk" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Relative Risk</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">For 2 x 2 tables, a measure of the strength of the association between the presence of
a factor and the occurrence of an event. If the confidence interval for the statistic includes a
value of 1, you cannot assume that the factor is associated with the event. The odds ratio can be
used as an estimate or relative risk when the occurrence of the factor is rare.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="reliability_analysis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Reliability Analysis</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Procedure for evaluating multiple-item additive scales. The procedure provides a large
number of reliability coefficients for multiple-item scales. Its subcommands encompass many
different approaches to reliability definition and estimation. In general, the concept of
reliability refers to how accurate, on the average, the estimate of the true score is in a
population of objects to be measured.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="reliability_of_scale" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Reliability of Scale</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The estimated reliability of the item scale under the model (parallel or strict
parallel) assumption.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="reliability_of_scale_unbiased" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Reliability of Scale (Unbiased)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An unbiased estimate of the reliability of the item scale under the model (parallel or
strict parallel) assumption.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="remove" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Remove</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A procedure for variable selection in which all variables in a block are removed in a
single step.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="remove_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Remove</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Deletes the selected value from the list.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="removed" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Removed</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variable removed at a step.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="repeated_contrast" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Repeated Contrast</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Compares the mean of each level (except the last) to the mean of the subsequent
level.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="repeated_contrasts" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Repeated Contrasts</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A repeated contrast compares adjacent categories. Each category of the predictor
variable or factor except the first category is compared to the category that precedes it.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="repeated_effects" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Repeated Effects</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Model effects associated with the repeated measurements.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="repeated_measures" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Repeated Measures</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Model parameters associated with the repeated effects.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="replace_a1_a2_a3_a4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">REPLACE(a1,a2,a3,a4)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">REPLACE(a1, a2, a3[, a4]). String. In a1, instances of a2 are replaced with a3. The
optional argument a4 specifies the number of occurrences to replace; if a4 is omitted, all
occurrences are replaced. Arguments a1, a2, and a3 must resolve to string values (literal strings
enclosed in quotes or string variables), and the optional argument a4 must resolve to a non-negative
integer. For example, REPLACE("abcabc", "a", "x") returns a value of "xbcxbc" and REPLACE("abcabc",
"a", "x", 1) returns a value of "xbcabc".</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="replace_working_data_file_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Replace active dataset</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Replaces the active dataset with the aggregated data file. The file includes the break
variables that define the aggregated cases and all aggregate variables defined by aggregate
functions. This does not affect the original data file. The aggregated data file is not saved unless
you explicitly save the data file (File menu, Save, or Save As).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="replace_existing" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Replace existing</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The new series are saved as temporary variables in the active dataset, and any existing
temporary variables created by Forecasting commands are dropped. Variable names are formed from a
three-letter prefix, a pound sign (#), and a number.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="replace_existing_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Replace existing</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The new series created by Seasonal Decomposition are saved as temporary variables in
your active dataset. At the same time, any existing temporary variables created by the Forecasting
procedures are dropped. Variable names are formed from a three-letter prefix, a pound sign (#), and
a number.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="replace_missing_values_with_mean" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Replace Missing Values With Mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">During classification, means are substituted for missing values for predictor
variables, and cases with missing values are classified.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="replace_with_mean" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Replace with Mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Replaces missing values with the variable mean.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="report_values" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Report Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Treats missing values for factor variables as a separate category. All output is
produced for this additional category. Frequency tables include categories for missing values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="reproduced_correlation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Reproduced Correlation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The predicted correlation based on the factor model</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="reproduced_correlation_matrix_factor_analysis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Reproduced Correlation Matrix (Factor Analysis)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The estimated correlation matrix from the factor solution. Residuals (difference
between estimated and observed correlations) are also displayed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="reproduced_covariance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Reproduced Covariance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The predicted covariance estimate based on the factor model</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="requested" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Requested</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number or proportion of units requested during sampling.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rescaled" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Rescaled</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Results for the rescaled (standardized) variables</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rescale_long_table" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Rescale Long Table</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Shrinks a long table, keeping the aspect ratio, to fit the length specifications in
Page Setup, for printing only.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rescale_wide_table" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Rescale Wide Table</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Shrinks a wide table, keeping the aspect ratio, to fit the width specifications in Page
Setup, for printing only.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rescaling" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Rescaling method</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Rescaling scale variables improves network training. All rescaling is based on the
training data. The standardized rescaling method subtracts the mean and divides by the standard
deviation; the normalized method subtracts the minimum and divides by the range so that values fall
between 0 and 1; the adjusted normalized method "stretches and recenters" the normalized method so
values fall between -1 and 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="reserved_attributes" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Reserved Attributes</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Custom variable or dataset attributes with names that start with a dollar sign ($).
These attributes are reserved for internal use.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="reset" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Reset</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Resets all settings to the system defaults and removes all variable assignments from
the dialog box.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="residual_8" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Residual</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The difference between the observed correlation or covariance and the value predicted
by the factor model</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="residual_10" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Residual</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The variability associated with the error term.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="residual_7" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Residual</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The difference between an observed value and the expected value. Large absolute values
for the residuals indicate that the observed values are very different from the expected
values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="blank_5" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Residual</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The dispersion in the data that is not accounted for by the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="residual_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Residual</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The difference between the observed and expected frequencies for a cell. A positive
value indicates that the cell frequency is higher than you would expect if the two variables were
unrelated.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="residual_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Residual</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The portion of the total variation of the dependent variable that cannot be explained
by the main effects of the independent variables and their interactions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="residual_11" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Residual</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The part of the within-people variability that cannot be explained by differences
between items.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="residual" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Residual</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The actual value of the dependent variable minus the value predicted by the regression
equation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="residual_anova" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">residual (ANOVA)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Statistics related to the variation in the dependent variable that is not explained by
the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="residual_general_loglinear" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Residual (General Loglinear)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Also called the simple or raw residual, it is the difference between the observed cell
count and its expected count.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="residual_error_season_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">residual error (SEASON)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The remainder of removing the seasonal, trend, and cycle components from the original
series.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="residuals_5" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Residuals</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Error terms are chosen randomly from the observed residuals of complete cases to be
added to the regression estimates.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="residuals_nonlin" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Residuals</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Saves residuals with the variable name resid.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="residuals" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Residuals</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The observed value of the dependent variable minus the value predicted by the
regression equation, for each case. Large absolute values for the residuals indicate that the
observed values are very different from the predicted values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gcurvefit13" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Residuals (Time Series)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The actual value of the dependent variable minus the value predicted by the model. This
is the error component of the original series, apart from the trend-cycle component and seasonal
factors. The variable names begin with err.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="residual_ss" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Residual SS</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The sum of squared deviations between the observed values and those predicted from the
model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="residual_sscp_glm" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Residual SSCP (GLM)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Sums of squares and cross products of residuals. The dimension of the RSSCP matrix is
the same as the number of dependent variables in the model. For the residual covariance matrix, the
residual SSCP matrix is divided by the degrees of freedom of the residual. The residual correlation
matrix is the standardized form of the residual covariance matrix.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="residual_sum_of_squares" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Residual Sum of Squares</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The default loss function is the sum of the squared residuals under the current
estimates of the model parameters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="respondents_tables_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Respondents (Tables Statistic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The (weighted) number of cases in the cell. (This can be less than Responses.)
Available for multiple response sets and their totals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="response_tree" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Response</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of cases in the node in the specified target category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="response_col_pct_tables_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Response Col % (Tables Statistic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of all the responses in the column that are in the cell. Available for
multiple-response sets and their totals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="response_layer_pct_tables_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Response Layer % (Tables Statistic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of all the responses in the layer that are in the cell. Available for
multiple-response sets and their totals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="response_percentage" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Response Percentage</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The cell count of responses as a percentage of the total.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="response_row_pct_tables_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Response Row % (Tables Statistic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of all the responses in the row that are in the cell. Available for
multiple-response sets and their totals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="responses_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Responses</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Statistics related to the responses to each item in the multiple response set. Note
that the reported percentages are in terms of the total number of responses, thus they add to
100%.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="responses" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Responses</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Count of responses for a group variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="responses_tables_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Responses (Tables Statistic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of responses in the cell. (This can be more than Respondents, the number of
cases.) Available for multiple-response sets and their totals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="response_subtable_pct_tables_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Response Subtable % (Tables Statistic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of all the responses in the smallest subtable containing the cell that
are actually in the cell. Available for multiple-response sets and their totals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="response_table_pct_tables_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Response Table % (Tables Statistic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of all the responses in the table that are in the cell. Available for
multiple-response sets and their totals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="results" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Results</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Summary of results for the final tree, including independent variables included in
final tree and number of nodes and levels.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="results_at_each_step" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Results at Each Step</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays step-by-step output for stepwise methods. Statistics include Wilks' lambda,
equivalent F, degrees of freedom, and significance of F for each step. Tolerance and the value of
the statistic used for variable selection are reported for all variables. F-to-remove, F-to-enter,
and minimum tolerance are also displayed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="result_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Result Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variables that contain the original nonmissing values and computed values for missing
values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="revenue_expense_and_profit" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Revenue, Expense, and Profit</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Profit values assigned to dependent variable categories prior to building the model are
computed as user-specified revenue minus user-specified expense. Profit values affect average profit
and ROI (return on investment) values in gains tables. They do not affect the basic tree model
structure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="reversals" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Reversals</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A reversal occurs when a subject shows preferences for a given factor that are opposite
to expectations; for instance, showing higher preference for higher price.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="right_outer_join" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Right Outer Join</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A join used to link data from two tables, it includes all records from 'Table 2' and
only those records from 'Table 1' where the related fields are equal. 'Table 2' is the table to
which you dragged the join line.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rindex_haystack_needle_divisor" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RINDEX(haystack,needle,divisor)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RINDEX(haystack,needle[,divisor]). Numeric. Returns an integer that indicates the
starting byte position of the last occurrence of the string needle in the string haystack. The
optional third argument, divisor, is the number of bytes used to divide needle into separate
strings. Divisor must be a positive integer and must divide evenly into the length of needle. If
needle is not found, the value 0 is returned.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rindex_haystack_needle" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RINDEX(haystack,needle)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RINDEX(haystack,needle). Numeric. Returns an integer that indicates the starting
position of the last occurrence of the string needle in the string haystack. Returns 0 if needle
does not occur within haystack.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="risk_difference" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Risk Difference</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The difference between the risk of an event in the presence of the factor and the risk
of the event in the absence of the factor.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="risk_ratio" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Risk Ratio</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The risk ratio as defined by the discordant proportions and counts.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="root_mean_square_error_rmse" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RMSE</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Root Mean Square Error. The square root of mean square error. A measure of how much a
dependent series varies from its model-predicted level, expressed in the same units as the dependent
series.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry xml:lang="en-us" id="root_mean_square_percentage_error_rmspe">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RMSPE</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of how much the model-predicted values differ from the observed values of the
series. It is independent of the units that are used and can therefore be used to compare series
with different units.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rnd_numexpr" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RND(numexpr,mult,fuzzbits)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RND(numexpr[,mult,fuzzbits]). Numeric. With a single argument, returns the integer
nearest to that argument. Numbers ending in .5 exactly are rounded away from 0. For example,
RND(-4.5) rounds to -5. The optional second argument, mult, specifies that the result is an integer
multiple of this value—for example, RND(-4.57,0.1) = -4.6. The value must be numeric but cannot be
0. The default is 1. The optional third argument, fuzzbits, is the number of least-significant bits
by which numexpr may fall short of the threshold for rounding up (e.g., 0.5 when rounding to an
integer) but still be rounded up. If omitted, the system setting of FUZZBITS (set to 6 at install
time) is used.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="robust_tests_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Robust Tests Statistic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the Welch or Brown-Forsythe statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rogers_and_tanimoto_similarity_measure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Rogers and Tanimoto Similarity Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Similarity measure for binary data. A matching coefficient in which joint absences are
included in the numerator and nonmatches are given double weight in the denominator. Computed from a
fourfold table as (a+d)/(a+d+2(b+c)) where a represents cases present on both items, d represents
cases absent on both items, and b and c represent cases present on one item but absent on the
other.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="roi" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">ROI</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Return on investment. The average profit divided by the average expense for the node,
expressed as a percent.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="role" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Role</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Role can be Input, Target, Both, None, Partition, or Split. Used to pre-select fields
in dialogs that support predefined roles.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="role_in_imputation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Role in Imputation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Marks whether the variable was used as a dependent, predictor, or both, during
imputation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="def_root" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Root (output item type)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The first item in the outline of the Viewer. By default, it is labeled OUTPUT. The user
can select the root item and cut, copy, paste or delete every item in the Viewer, and can expand or
collapse it. A root item exists only in the outline. The user can change its label text but cannot
activate it for further editing.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rotated_solution" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Rotated Solution</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A rotation method must be selected to obtain a rotated solution. For orthogonal
rotations, the rotated pattern matrix and factor transformation matrix are displayed. For oblique
rotations, the pattern, structure, and factor correlation matrices are displayed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rotation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Rotation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to specify a rotation method or obtain factor loading plots. Rotation is a
general method for making a factor solution easier to interpret. There are several different methods
for rotation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rotation_sums_of_squared_loadings" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Rotation Sums of Squared Loadings</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Sums of Squared Loadings for the rotated factor solution</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="round" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Round</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The pth percentile is estimated by the case number closest to np.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="round_case_weights" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Round case weights</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Case weights are rounded before use.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="round_cell_counts" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Round cell counts</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Case weights are used as is but the accumulated weights in the cells are rounded before
computing any statistics.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="row_10" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Row</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Dimension containing the category numbers or category value labels of the row
variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="row_s_variable_list" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Row(s) Variable List</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Selected variables are displayed in rows in the crosstabulation. Selected variables
should be categorical (variables with a limited number of distinct values). A crosstabulation is
produced for each combination of row and column variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="row_dimension_labels_in_corner" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Row Dimension Labels in Corner</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the dimension labels in the corner of the table.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="row_dimension_labels_nested" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Row Dimension Labels Nested</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the dimension label in a row before the first category label for the
dimension.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="row_objects" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Row Objects</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The row objects are represented by cases, or rows, in the dataset.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="row_percentage_crosstabs" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Row Percentage (Crosstabs)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of all the cases in a row that fall into a particular cell.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="row_principal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Row Principal</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Distances between the row points are approximations of the selected distance measure.
This method maximizes distances between row points. Use this method if you want to examine
differences or similarities between categories of the row variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rows" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Rows</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variables on this list are displayed as rows.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="roys_largest_root" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Roy's Largest Root</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A multivariate test of the significance of each effect in the model. It is the largest
eigenvalue.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rpad_strexpr_length" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RPAD(strexpr,length)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RPAD(strexpr,length). String. Returns the string strexpr padded on the right with
blanks to extend it to the length given by length. The value of length represents the number of
bytes and must be a positive integer. </ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rpad_strexpr_length_char" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RPAD(strexpr1,length,strexpr2)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RPAD(strexpr1,length[,strexpr2]). String. Right-pads strexpr1 with strexpr2 to extend
it to the length given by length using as many complete copies as will fit of strexpr2 as the
padding string. The value of length represents the number of bytes and must be a positive integer.
The optional third argument strexpr2 is a quoted string or an expression that resolves to a string.
If strepxr2 is omitted, the value is padded with blanks.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="r-squared" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">R-squared</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An estimate of the proportion of the total variation in the series that is explained by
the model. This measure is most useful when the series is stationary. R-squared can be negative with
a range of negative infinity to 1. Negative values mean that the model under consideration is worse
than the baseline model. Positive values mean that the model under consideration is better than the
baseline model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="r_squared" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">R-Squared</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Goodness-of-fit measure of a linear model, sometimes called the coefficient of
determination. It is the proportion of variation in the dependent variable explained by the
regression model. It ranges in value from 0 to 1. Small values indicate that the model does not fit
the data well.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry xml:lang="en-us" id="r_squared_generic">
<glossterm>
<term>R square</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Goodness-of-fit measure of a linear model, sometimes called the coefficient of
determination. It is the proportion of variation in the target variable explained by the model. It
ranges in value from 0 to 1. Small values indicate that the model does not fit the data well.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="r_squared_change" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">R-Squared Change</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The change in the R-squared statistic that is produced by adding or deleting an
independent variable. If the R-squared change associated with a variable is large, that means that
the variable is a good predictor of the dependent variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="r_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">R statistic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of linear association between two variables. Values of R range between -1 (a
perfect negative relationship in which all points fall on a line with negative slope) and +1 (a
perfect positive relationship in which all points fall on a line with positive slope). A value of 0
indicates no linear relationship.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rtrim_strexpr_char" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RTRIM(strexpr,char)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RTRIM(strexpr[,char]). String. Trims trailing instances of char within strexpr. The
optional second argument char is a single quoted character or an expression that yields a single
character. If char is omitted, trailing blanks are trimmed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rtrim_strexpr" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RTRIM(strexpr)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RTRIM(strexpr). String. Returns the string strexpr trimmed of any trailing blanks. This
function is normally used within a larger expression, since strings are padded with trailing blanks
upon being assigned to variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rule_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Rule</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A rule is used to determine whether a case is valid. Single-variable rules consist of a
fixed set of checks that apply to a single variable. Cross-variable rules are user-defined rules
that can be applied to a single variable or a combination of variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rule_expression" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Rule Expression</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The computational expression that defines the rule.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rules_file" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Rules file</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The text file that contains the case selection or scoring rules for the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="runs" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Runs</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Any sequence of like observations in an ordered group of values. The likeness may be
the same value, the same sign, or being from the same sample.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="runs_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Runs Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A one-sample nonparametric test for randomness in a dichotomous variable. A run is any
sequence of cases having the same value. The total number of runs in a sample is a measure of
randomness in the order of the cases in the sample. Too many or too few runs can suggest a nonrandom
(dependent) ordering. The runs test is only appropriate when the order of cases is meaningful.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="russell_and_rao_similarity_measure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Russell and Rao Similarity Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Similarity measure for binary data. The binary dot product, computed from a fourfold
table as a/(a+b+c+d) where a represents cases present on both items, d represents cases absent on
both items, and b and c represent cases present on one item but absent on the other.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rv.bernoulli_prob" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RV.BERNOULLI(prob)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RV.BERNOULLI(prob). Numeric. Returns a random value from a Bernoulli distribution with
the specified probability parameter prob.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rv.beta_shape1_shape2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RV.BETA(shape1, shape2)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RV.BETA(shape1, shape2). Numeric. Returns a random value from a Beta distribution with
specified shape parameters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rv.binom_n_prob" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RV.BINOM(n, prob)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RV.BINOM(n, prob). Numeric. Returns a random value from a binomial distribution with
specified number of trials and probability parameter.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rv.cauchy_loc_scale" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RV.CAUCHY(loc, scale)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RV.CAUCHY(loc, scale). Numeric. Returns a random value from a Cauchy distribution with
specified location and scale parameters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rv.chisq_df" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RV.CHISQ(df)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RV.CHISQ(df). Numeric. Returns a random value from a chi-square distribution with
specified degrees of freedom df.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rv.exp_shape" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RV.EXP(shape)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RV.EXP(scale). Numeric. Returns a random value from an exponential distribution with
specified scale parameter.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rv.f_df1_df2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RV.F(df1, df2)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RV.F(df1, df2). Numeric. Returns a random value from an F distribution with specified
degrees of freedom, df1 and df2.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rv.gamma_shape_scale" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RV.GAMMA(shape, scale)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RV.GAMMA(shape, scale). Numeric. Returns a random value from a Gamma distribution with
specified shape and scale parameters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rv.geom_prob" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RV.GEOM(prob)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RV.GEOM(prob). Numeric. Returns a random value from a geometric distribution with
specified probability parameter.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rv.halfnrm" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RV.HALFNRM</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RV.HALFNRM(mean, stddev). Numeric. Returns a random value from a half normal
distribution with the specified mean and standard deviation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rv.hyper_total_sample_hits" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RV.HYPER(total, sample, hits)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RV.HYPER(total, sample, hits). Numeric. Returns a random value from a hypergeometric
distribution with specified parameters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rv.igauss" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RV.IGAUSS</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RV.IGAUSS(loc, scale). Numeric. Returns a random value from an inverse Gaussian
distribution with the specified location and scale parameters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rv.laplace_mean_scale" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RV.LAPLACE(mean, scale)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RV.LAPLACE(mean, scale). Numeric. Returns a random value from a Laplace distribution
with specified mean and scale parameters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rv.lnormal_a_b" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RV.LNORMAL(a, b)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RV.LNORMAL(a, b). Numeric. Returns a random value from a log-normal distribution with
specified parameters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rv.logistic_mean_scale" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RV.LOGISTIC(mean, scale)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RV.LOGISTIC(mean, scale). Numeric. Returns a random value from a logistic distribution
with specified mean and scale parameters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rv.negbin_threshold_prob" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RV.NEGBIN(threshold, prob)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RV.NEGBIN(threshold, prob). Numeric. Returns a random value from a negative binomial
distribution with specified threshold and probability parameters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rv.normal_mean_stddev" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RV.NORMAL(mean, stddev)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RV.NORMAL(mean, stddev). Numeric. Returns a random value from a normal distribution
with specified mean and standard deviation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rv.pareto_threshold_shape" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RV.PARETO(threshold, shape)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RV.PARETO(threshold, shape). Numeric. Returns a random value from a Pareto distribution
with specified threshold and shape parameters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rv.poisson_mean" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RV.POISSON(mean)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RV.POISSON(mean). Numeric. Returns a random value from a Poisson distribution with
specified mean/rate parameter.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rv.t_df" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RV.T(df)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RV.T(df). Numeric. Returns a random value from a Student's t distribution with
specified degrees of freedom df.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rv.uniform_min_max" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RV.UNIFORM(min, max)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RV.UNIFORM(min, max). Numeric. Returns a random value from a uniform distribution with
specified minimum and maximum. See also the UNIFORM function.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="rv.weibull_a_b" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">RV.WEIBULL(a, b)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">RV.WEIBULL(a, b). Numeric. Returns a random value from a Weibull distribution with
specified parameters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="s.e._of_mean_predicted_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">S.E. of Mean Predicted Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An estimate of the standard deviation of the average value of the dependent variable
for cases that have the same values of the independent variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="s.e._of_mean_predictions" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">S.E. of Mean Predictions</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Standard errors of the predicted values. An estimate of the standard deviation of the
average value of the dependent variable for cases that have the same values of the independent
variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sample" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sample</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Selects a random sample based on an approximate percentage or an exact number of
cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sample_information" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sample Information</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">These fields provide further details of the sampling design.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sampling_design_degrees_of_freedom" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sampling Design Degrees of Freedom</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The degrees of freedom used in computing p-values for all test statistics. The default
value is the difference between the number of primary sampling units and the number of strata in the
first stage of sampling.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sampling_zeros" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sampling Zeros</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cells that have no observed values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="savage_score_rank_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Savage Score (Rank Cases)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The new variable contains Savage scores based on an exponential distribution. </ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="save_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Save</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to save classification information or discriminant scores for each
case.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="save_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Save</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to save cluster memberships.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="save" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Save</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to save predicted values, residuals, and related measures as new variables
which are added to the active dataset. A table in the output shows the name of each new variable and
its contents.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="save_as" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Save As</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Saves the current table properties to a specified file and directory.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="save_as_variables" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Save As Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Saves factor scores as variables. One variable is created for each factor in the
solution. A table in the output shows the name of each new variable and a variable label indicating
the method used to calculate factor scores.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="save_look" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Save Look</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Saves the current table properties to the currently selected TableLook file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="save_standardized_values_as_variables" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Save Standardized Values As Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Creates and saves one Z-score variable for each selected variable. New variable names
are created by prefixing the letter z to the first seven characters of original variable names.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="scale_11" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">scale</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The scale parameter for the distribution. For instance, for the normal distribution
this is the parameter 'b' in NORMAL(a,b).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="scale_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Scale</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The scale of the results</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="scale_10" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Scale</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A variable can be treated as scale (continuous) when its values represent ordered
categories with a meaningful metric, so that distance comparisons between values are appropriate.
Examples of scale variables include age in years and income in thousands of dollars. </ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gscale1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Scale Axis</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An axis that displays numerical values to scale. (A category axis, in contrast,
displays individual values separately and not necessarily to scale.) Bar charts and line charts
usually have at least one scale axis, plus one category axis. Scatterplots have at least two scale
axes but no category axis. Histograms have a scale axis and an interval axis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="scaled_deviance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Scaled Deviance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The ratio of the deviance statistic to the scale parameter.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="scaled_pearson_chi-square" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Scaled Pearson Chi-Square</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The ratio of the Pearson chi-square statistic to the scale parameter.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="scale_mean_if_item_deleted" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Scale Mean if Item Deleted</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure for examining the relationship between individual items and the total scale,
this is the mean value of the item sum if the given item is not included in the scale.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="scale_parameter" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Scale parameter</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The scale parameter is an estimated model parameter related to the variance of the
response.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gaxis08" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Scale Range</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Determines the maximum and minimum values along the scale axis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="scale_variance_if_item_deleted" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Scale Variance if Item Deleted</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure for examining the relationship between individual items and the total scale,
this is the variance of the item sum if the given item is not included in the scale.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="scale_weight" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Scale Weight</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The scale, or omega, weights are "known" values that determine each case's relative
contribution to the estimate of the scale parameter. Cases with scale weight values that are less
than or equal to zero, or missing, are not used in the analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gaxis14" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Scaling Factor</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A factor by which the axis labels have been divided for display purposes. If the
scaling factor is 1000, axis labels are 1000 times smaller than the corresponding data values. If
the scaling factor is 0.01, axis labels are 100 times larger than the corresponding data
values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="scatterplot_matrix" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Scatterplot Matrix</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Plots a square matrix of simple (bivariate) scatterplots, plotting all possible pairs
of the selected variables against one another.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="scheffe" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Scheffe</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Performs simultaneous joint pairwise comparisons for all possible pairwise combinations
of means. Uses the F sampling distribution. Can be used to examine all possible linear combinations
of group means, not just pairwise comparisons.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="scheffe_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Scheffe test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Performs simultaneous joint pairwise comparisons for all possible pairwise combinations
of means. Uses the F sampling distribution. This test can be used to examine all possible linear
combinations of group means, not just pairwise comparisons.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="schwarzs_bayesian_criterion" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Schwarz's Bayesian Criterion</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A statistic that helps you choose between models. The BIC takes into account both how
well the model fits the observed series, and the number of parameters used in the fit. Smaller
values of the BIC indicate better models.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="schwarz_bayesian_criterion_sbc" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Schwarz Bayesian Criterion (BIC)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A statistic which helps you decide the order of a model. BIC takes into account both
how well the model fits the observed series, and the number of parameters used in the model. Look
for that model which adequately describes the series and has the minimum BIC. The BIC is based on
Bayesian (maximum-likelihood) considerations.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="scientific_notation_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Scientific Notation Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Defines a numeric variable whose values are displayed with an imbedded E and a signed
power-of-ten exponent. The Data Editor accepts numeric values for such variables with or without an
exponent. The exponent can be preceded either by E or D with an optional sign, or by the sign alone.
For example, 123, 1.23E2, 1.23D2, 1.23E+2, and even 1.23+2.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="score" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">score</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Custom scores assigned to each category of the dependent variable. Scores define the
order of and distance between categories of the dependent variable. You can use scores to
increase/decrease the relative distance between ordinal values or change the order of the
values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="score_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Score</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the derivative for the estimated parameters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="score_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Score</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The total utility for the simulation case.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="score_z" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Score</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Classical Z test using standard error that assumes the null hypothesis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="score_z_cont" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Score (Continuity Corrected)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Continuity-corrected version of the Score Z test, resulting in larger p values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="score_in_dimension" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Score in dimension</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Optimal quantification assigned to a category in a particular dimension.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="scores_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Scores</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The marginal proportions and scores for each row and column.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="scores" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Scores</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to save scores for use in other analyses.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="score_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Score statistic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Test statistic to determine whether the coefficient is different from zero, based on
the change in log-likelihood associated with the effect</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="scree" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Scree</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A plot of the variance that is associated with each factor. This plot is used to
determine how many factors should be kept. Typically the plot shows a distinct break between the
steep slope of the large factors and the gradual trailing of the rest (the scree).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="s-curve_model" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">S-Curve Model</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Model whose equation is Y = e**(b0 + (b1/t)) or ln(Y) = b0 + (b1/t).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sd_numexpr_numexpr_.." xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">SD(numexpr,numexpr[,..])</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">SD(numexpr,numexpr[,..]). Numeric. Returns the standard deviation of its arguments that
have valid, nonmissing values. This function requires two or more arguments, which must be numeric.
You can specify a minimum number of valid arguments for this function to be evaluated.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="seasonal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Seasonal</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The seasonal column contains text boxes in which you can specify the corresponding
parameters (sp, sd, and sq) of the process at seasonal lags. These values can be 0 or a positive
integer, usually 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="seasonal_additive" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Seasonal additive</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An outlier that affects a particular observation and all subsequent observations
separated from it by one or more seasonal periods. All such observations are affected equally. A
seasonal additive outlier might occur if, beginning in a certain year, sales are higher every
January.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="seasonal_autoregressive_ar_orders" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Seasonal Autoregressive (AR) Orders</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies that the model contains seasonal autoregressive orders. The details for each
lag (order) are provided.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gexsmooth07" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Seasonal Delta Value (Exponential Smoothing)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Exponential smoothing parameter that controls the relative weight given to recent
observations in estimating the present seasonality. It ranges from 0 to 1, with values near 1 giving
higher weight to recent values. Delta is used for all exponential smoothing models with a seasonal
component. It is not used for the simple or Holt models.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="seasonal_denominator_orders" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Seasonal Denominator Orders</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies that the transfer function for the associated independent variable contains
seasonal denominator orders. The details for each lag (order) are provided.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="seasonal_difference_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Seasonal Difference</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies the number of seasonal differencing (integration) orders for the associated
dependent or independent variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gx11arima02" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Seasonal Factors</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Seasonal components of the original variables. For models with seasonal components, you
can optionally move a variable containing seasonal factors into the Seasonal Factors box. The
Seasonal Decomposition procedure creates such variables. The adjusted seasonal averages indicate the
net effect of each period on the level of the series. The variable names begin with saf.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="seasonally_adjusted_series" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">seasonally adjusted series</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The original series with seasonal variations removed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gx11arima01" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Seasonally Adjusted Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variables with the seasonal variation removed. Seasonal adjustment serves to highlight
trend, thus enabling you to assess whether the series values have increased or decreased net of the
seasonal effect. The saved variable names begin with sas.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gacf03" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Seasonally Difference</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Transforms time series data by calculating the difference between series values a
constant span apart. Enter a positive integer to specify the degree of differencing (the number of
time periods used to calculate the difference). This transformation is only available if the
periodicity of the series has been defined (using Define Dates on the Data menu).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="seasonal_numerator_orders" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Seasonal Numerator Orders</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies that the transfer function for the associated independent variable contains
seasonal numerator orders. The details for each lag (order) are provided.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="second_highest_group" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Second highest group</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Statistics concerning the second most strongly predicted group membership for each
case, based on the discriminant function(s)</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="second-order_controls" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Second-order Controls</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The second factor specified. The analysis is stratified on levels of this factor.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="seed" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Seed</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The seed used to generate each random start.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="select" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Select</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to limit the analysis to a subset of cases having a particular value for a
variable. After selecting this option choose a selection variable and enter a set value for the
case-selection variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="selected_8" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Selected</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variables selected by the procedure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="selected" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Selected</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays information for cases selected by the selection variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="selected_data_file" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Selected Data File</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">ASCII text data file to be defined.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="selection_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Selection</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Selection status (selected or unselected) of cases</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="selection_criteria" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Selection Criteria</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the different selection criteria for each model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="selection_method" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Selection Method</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The method used to extract the sample. Methods differ in several ways, including
whether units are selected with equal or unequal probability, whether the selection is systematic or
random, and whether units are selected with or without replacement.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="selection_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Selection Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Choose a selection variable to limit the analysis to a subset of cases having a
particular value for this variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sensitivity" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sensitivity</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of the usefulness of a classification scheme. Sensitivity is the probability
that a "positive" case is correctly classified, and is plotted on the y-axis in an ROC curve.
1-sensitivity is the false negative rate.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="separate-groups" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Separate-Groups</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Separate-groups covariance matrices are used for classification. Because classification
is based on the discriminant functions (not based on the original variables), this option is not
always equivalent to quadratic discrimination.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="separate-groups_covariance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Separate-Groups Covariance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays separate covariance matrices for each group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="separate-groups_plots" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Separate-Groups Plots</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Creates separate-group scatterplots of the first two discriminant function values. If
there is only one function, histograms are displayed instead.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="separate_variance_estimate" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Separate Variance Estimate</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The test of the null hypothesis that two population means are equal must use
separate-variance estimates when the variances for the two populations are not assumed to be
equal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sequential_bonferroni" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sequential Bonferroni</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is a sequentially step-down rejective Bonferroni procedure that is much less
conservative in terms of rejecting individual hypotheses but maintains the same overall significance
level.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sequential_quadratic_programming" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sequential Quadratic Programming</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This method is available for constrained and unconstrained models. Sequential quadratic
programming is used automatically if you specify a constrained model, a user-defined loss function,
or bootstrapping. You can enter new values for Maximum iterations and Step limit, and you can change
the selection in the drop-down lists for Optimality tolerance, Function precision, and Infinite step
size.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sequential_sidak" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sequential Sidak</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is a sequentially step-down rejective Sidak procedure that is much less
conservative in terms of rejecting individual hypotheses but maintains the same overall significance
level.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gseries01" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Series (Charts)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Series distinguish between the items represented within a each group of items for a
category. For example, each bar within a cluster belongs to a different series. Each series is
represented by a different color or fill pattern on the chart legend.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="series_name" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Series Name</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variable name assigned to the calculated series.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="set" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Set</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variables are listed according to the sets to which they were assigned.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="set_definition" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Set Definition</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the numeric variables in the data file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="set_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Set Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to enter a value for the case-selection variable that limits the analysis to
a subset of cases having this value for the selected variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="shape_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">shape</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The shape parameter for the distribution. For instance, for the Weibull distribution
this is the parameter 'b' in WEIBULL(a,b).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="shape1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">shape1</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The shape1 parameter for a Beta distribution of the form BETA(shape1,shape2).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="shape2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">shape2</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The shape2 parameter for a Beta distribution of the form BETA(shape1,shape2).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="shape_distances" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Shape Distance Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Difference measure for binary data that has no lower or upper limit. Computed from a
fourfold table as ((a+b+c+d)(b+c)-(b-c)**2)/(a+b+c+d)**2 where a represents cases present on both
items, d represents cases absent on both items, and b and c represent cases present on one item but
absent on the other.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="shapiro-wilk_test_explore" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Shapiro-Wilk Test (Explore)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Tests the hypothesis that the sample is from a normal population.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="shepards_rough_nondegeneracy_index" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Shepard's Rough Nondegeneracy Index</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of whether there are sufficiently different distances, reported as a
percentage of different data elements or distances. Larger values indicate solutions that are less
likely to be degenerate.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="short_string_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Short String Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A string variable with a width of 8 or fewer bytes.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="show_case_numbers" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Show Case Numbers</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays case numbers from the data file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sidak" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sidak</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This method provides tighter bounds than the Bonferroni approach.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sidak_post_hoc" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sidak (Post Hoc)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Pairwise multiple comparison test based on a t statistic. Sidak adjusts the
significance level for multiple comparisons and provides tighter bounds than Bonferroni.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sig" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm><term>Sig.</term></glossterm>
<glossdef>The specified significance level.</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sig_i" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm><term>Sig.</term></glossterm>
<glossdef>The significance level of the type I error rate for the test.</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sig.chisq" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">SIG.CHISQ</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">SIG.CHISQ(quant, df). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a value from the
chi-square distribution, with df degrees of freedom, will be greater than quant</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sig.f" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">SIG.F</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">SIG.F(quant, df1, df2). Numeric. Returns the cumulative probability that a value from
the F distribution, with degrees of freedom df1 and df2, will be greater than quant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry xml:lang="en-us" id="sig_2tail">
<glossterm>
<term>Sig. (2-tail)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph>Two-sided p-value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sig._f" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sig. F</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">These significance values should not be used to test hypotheses about the F values in
this table. Cluster analysis specifically attempts to maximize between-group variance, and the
significance values reported here do not reflect this.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="significance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Significance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Often referred to as alpha, this is the probability that the null hypothesis is
rejected when it is in fact true (the probability of a Type I error).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sig_alterantive_hypothesis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Significance (by Alternative Hypothesis)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Reports significance values for each of the listed hypotheses.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="significance_model_fit" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Significance (model fit)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A statistical test of whether the model adequately fits the data. Small values (less
than .10) indicate that there are significant differences between the model and the data, indicating
a poor fit of the data.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="significance_score_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Significance (score statistic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The level of statistical significance indicated by the Score test for the coefficient.
Small values (less than 0.05) indicate that the coefficient is statistically different from
zero.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="significance_criterion" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">significance criterion</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A rule used to determine whether or not a test statistic is significant. Generally, the
0.05 criterion is used to indicate significance and the 0.10 criterion is used to indicate lack of
significance.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="significance_level" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Significance Level</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The conditional probability that a relationship as strong as the one observed in the
data would be present, if the null hypothesis were true. It is often called the p-value. Typically a
value of less than 0.05 is considered significant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry xml:lang="en-us" id="significance_level_1">
<glossterm>
<term>Significance Level</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph>The conditional probability that a relationship as strong or stronger than the one observed in
the data would be present, if the null hypothesis were true. It is often called the p-value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="significance_levels_factor_analysis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Significance Levels (Factor Analysis)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">One-tailed significance levels of coefficients in the correlation matrix.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="significance_of_bartletts_test_of_sphericity" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Significance of Bartlett's test of sphericity</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The probability associated with the computed chi-square. Small values indicate that
there are significant relationships among the variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="significance_of_f" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Significance of F</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The observed significance level of F. If this probability is small enough, usually less
than 0.05 or 0.01, the null hypothesis, that there is no linear relationship between the dependent
and independent variables, is rejected.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="significance_of_f_change" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Significance of F Change</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">If the significance of F change is small (smaller than say 0.05) then the null
hypothesis that inclusion of an additional variable does not result in a significant increase in
R-squared is rejected.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="significance_of_the_change" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Significance of the change</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Significance of the change in -2 log likelihood for the current step. Small values
(less than .05) indicate a statistically significant difference between the previous step and the
current step.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="significance_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">significance value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Also known as a p-value. Most statistical tests, regardless of the statistic used in
the calculation of the test, report significance values that lie on a common scale from 0 to 1.
Decreasing significance values indicate evidence against the null hypothesis. Generally, values less
than 0.05 mean the data are inconsistent with the null; values greater than 0.10 mean the data are
consistent with the null.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sign_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sign Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A nonparametric procedure used with two related samples to test the hypothesis that two
variables have the same distribution. The differences between the two variables for all cases are
computed and classified as either positive, negative, or tied. If the two variables are similarly
distributed, the numbers of positive and negative differences will not be significantly
different.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="simple" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Simple</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This model is appropriate for series in which there is no trend or seasonality. Its
only smoothing parameter is level. Simple exponential smoothing is most similar to an ARIMA model
with zero orders of autoregression, one order of differencing, one order of moving average, and no
constant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="simple_bivariate_scatterplot" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Simple (Bivariate) Scatterplot</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Plots two variables on two scale axes. One variable defines the horizontal axis and the
other defines the vertical axis. The values of the variables for any given case serve as the
coordinates of the point for that case.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="simple_area_chart" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Simple Area Chart</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The chart has a single line that connects a series of points, one for each category,
case or variable on the category axis. The area below the line is shaded.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="simple_bar_chart" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Simple Bar Chart</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The chart contains a single bar for each category, case or variable on the category
axis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="simple_box_plot" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Simple Box Plot</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Contains a single box plot for each category or variable on the category axis. Box
plots show the median, quartiles, and extreme values for the category or variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="simple_contrast_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Simple Contrast</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Compares the mean of each level to the mean of a specified level. This type of contrast
is useful when there is a control group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="simple_contrast" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Simple Contrast</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">In a simple contrast, each category except one of the predictor variables or factors is
compared to a reference category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="simple_contrasts" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Simple Contrasts</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Each category except one of the predictor variables or factors is compared to a
reference category. Select either First or Last as the reference category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="simple_error_bar" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Simple Error Bar</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Contains a single error bar for each category or variable on the category axis. Error
bars show the confidence interval, standard error, or standard deviation for a variable or
category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="simple_matching_similarity_measure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Simple Matching Similarity Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Similarity measure for binary data. The ratio of the number of matches to the total
number of matches and nonmatches. Computed from a fourfold table as (a+d)/(a+b+c+d) where a
represents present on both items, d represents cases absent on both items, and b and c represent
cases present on one item but absent on the other.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gexsmooth01" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Simple Model (Exponential Smoothing)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The simple model assumes that the series has no trend and no seasonal variation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="simple_pareto_chart" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Simple Pareto Chart</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Contains a single bar for each category, case or variable on the category axis, sorted
in descending order. Bars represent counts or sums. A line displaying the cumulative sum is
superimposed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="simple_seasonal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Simple seasonal</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This model is appropriate for series with no trend and a seasonal effect that is
constant over time. Its smoothing parameters are level and season. Simple seasonal exponential
smoothing is most similar to an ARIMA model with zero orders of autoregression, one order of
differencing, one order of seasonal differencing, and orders 1, p, and p + 1 of moving average,
where p is the number of periods in a seasonal interval (for monthly data, p = 12).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sin_radians" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">SIN(radians)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">SIN(radians). Numeric. Returns the sine of radians, which must be a numeric value,
measured in radians.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="single_and_multiple_fit" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Single and multiple fit</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Measures of goodness of fit of the single- and multiple-category coordinates/category
quantifications with respect to the objects.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="single_category_coordinates" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Single Category Coordinates</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The single category coordinates equal the weights times the quantifications, and
represent the locations of the categories on a line in the object space.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="single_fit" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Single Fit</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is the model fit that would result from restricting variables from being treated
as multiple nominal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="single_loss" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Single Loss</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is the loss in fit that would result from restricting variables from being treated
as multiple nominal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="single_measures" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Single Measures</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Single measure applies to individual measurements, for example, the ratings of judges,
individual item scores, or the body weights of individuals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="single_solution" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Single Solution</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays cluster memberships for a single-cluster solution with a specified number of
clusters. Enter an integer greater than 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="single-variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Single-variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Single-variable rules consist of a fixed set of checks that apply to a single
variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="singular_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Singular value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Measure of the importance of a dimension.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="size_difference_measure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Size Difference Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Dissimilarity measure for binary data. Computed from a fourfold table as
(b-c)**2/(a+b+c+d)**2 where a represents cases present on both items, d represents cases absent on
both items, and b and c represent cases present on one item but absent on the other. Has a minimum
value of 0 and no upper limit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="skewness" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Skewness</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of the asymmetry of a distribution. The normal distribution is symmetric and
has a skewness value of 0. A distribution with a significant positive skewness has a long right
tail. A distribution with a significant negative skewness has a long left tail. As a guideline, a
skewness value more than twice its standard error is taken to indicate a departure from
symmetry.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="slope" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Slope</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of the amount of change in the dependent variable associated with each unit
of change in the independent variable. If the slope is zero, it means that there is no linear
relationship between the dependent variable and the independent variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="smoothed_trend-cycle_series" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">smoothed trend-cycle series</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A smoothed version of the seasonally adjusted series which shows both trend and cyclic
components.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="student-newman-keuls" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">S-N-K (Student-Newman-Keuls)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Makes all pairwise comparisons between means using the Studentized range distribution.
With equal sample sizes, it also compares pairs of means within homogeneous subsets, using a
stepwise procedure. Means are ordered from highest to lowest, and extreme differences are tested
first.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sokal_and_sneath_1_similarity_measure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sokal and Sneath 1 Similarity Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A matching coefficients similarity measure for binary data in which all matches are
included in the denominator, joint absences are included in the numerator, and double weight is
given to matches. Computed from a fourfold table as 2(a+d)/(2(a+d)+b+c) where a represents cases
present on both items, b and c represent cases present on one item but absent on the other, and d
represents cases absent on both items.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sokal_and_sneath_2_similarity_measure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sokal and Sneath 2 Similarity Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A matching coefficients similarity measure for binary data in which joint absences are
excluded from both the numerator and the denominator, and double weight is given to nonmatches.
Computed from a fourfold table as a/(a+2(b+c)) where a represents cases present on both items, and b
and c represent cases present on one item but absent on the other.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sokal_and_sneath_3_similarity_measure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sokal and Sneath 3 Similarity Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A matching coefficients similarity measure for binary data in which all matches are
excluded from the denominator, joint absences are included in the numerator, and equal weight is
given to matches and nonmatches. This measure is undefined when there are no nonmatches. Computed
from a fourfold table as (a+d)/(b+c) where a represents cases present on both items, b and c
represent cases present on one item but absent on the other, and d represents cases absent on both
items.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sokal_and_sneath_4_similarity_measure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sokal and Sneath 4 Similarity Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Similarity measure for binary data that yields the conditional probability that a
characteristic of one item is in the same state (presence or absence) as the characteristic of the
other item. The measure is an average over both items acting as predictors. It has a range of 0 to
1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sokal_and_sneath_5_similarity_measure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sokal and Sneath 5 Similarity Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Similarity measure for binary data. This measure has a range of 0 to 1. Computed from a
fourfold table as ad/(SQRT((a+b)(a+c)(b+d)(c+d))) where a represents cases present on both items, b
and c represent cases present on one item but absent on the other, and d represents cases absent on
both items.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="somers_d" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Somers' d</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of association between two ordinal variables that ranges from -1 to 1. Values
close to an absolute value of 1 indicate a strong relationship between the two variables, and values
close to 0 indicate little or no relationship between the variables. Somers' d is an asymmetric
extension of gamma that differs only in the inclusion of the number of pairs not tied on the
independent variable. A symmetric version of this statistic is also calculated.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sorted_by_size" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sorted By Size</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Sorts factor loading and structure matrices so that variables with high loadings on the
same factor appear together.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sort_file_before_aggregating" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sort file before aggregating</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">In very rare instances with large data files, you may find it necessary to sort the
data file by values of the break variables prior to aggregating. This option is not recommended
unless you encounter memory or performance problems.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="source_13" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Source</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The sources of proximities in the analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="source" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Source</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the different sources of variability.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="source_11" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Source</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The model effect being tested.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="source_of_variation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Source of Variation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The component to which a portion of the variation in the dependent variables is
attributed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sources_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sources</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of sources of proximities.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="source_variable_rank_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Source Variable (Rank Cases)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The name of the original variable. The values of this variable remain unchanged.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="source_variable_list" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Source Variable List</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the dependent variable (DEPENDNT) and the following predicted and residual
variables: Standardized predicted values (*ZPRED), Standardized residuals (*ZRESID), Deleted
residuals (*DRESID), Adjusted predicted values (*ADJPRED), Studentized residuals (*SRESID),
Studentized deleted residuals (*SDRESID).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="source_variable_list_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Source Variable List</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the numeric and string variables in the data file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="source_variable_list_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Source Variable List</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the numeric variables in the data file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gspectra09" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Span</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The range of consecutive values across which the smoothing is carried out. Generally,
an odd integer is used. Larger spans smooth the spectral density plot more than smaller spans.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="spearman-brown_coefficient" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Spearman-Brown Coefficient</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The Spearman-Brown Coefficient is a measure of reliability for split scales that treats
the split scales as items on a two-item scale and uses the correlation between forms as the basis
for the statistic. The unequal-length version of the statistic adjusts for split scales with
different numbers of items.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="spearman_correlation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Spearman Correlation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A nonparametric version of the Pearson correlation coefficient, based on the ranks of
the data rather than the actual values. It is appropriate for ordinal data, or for interval data
that do not satisfy the normality assumption. Values of the coefficient range from -1 to +1. The
sign of the coefficient indicates the direction of the relationship, and its absolute value
indicates the strength, with larger absolute values indicating stronger relationships.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="spearman_correlation_coefficient" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Spearman Correlation Coefficient</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Commonly used nonparametric measure of correlation between two ordinal variables. For
all of the cases, the values of each of the variables are ranked from smallest to largest, and the
Pearson correlation coefficient is computed on the ranks.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="spearman_power_correlation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Spearman Correlation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The power analysis for the one-sample Spearman rank-order correlation test.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="special" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Special</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A special contrast is a user-defined contrast.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="specifications" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Specifications</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The specifications used to generate the tree model</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="specificity" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Specificity</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of the usefulness of a classification scheme. Specificity is the probability
that a "negative" case is correctly classified. 1-specificity is the false positive rate, and is
plotted on the x-axis in an ROC Curve.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="specificity_prefscal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Specificity (prefscal)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specificity is a measure of how different an individual space is from the common space.
An individual space that was identical to the common space would have identical dimension weights
and a specificity of 0, while an individual space that was specific to a particular dimension would
have a single large dimension weight and a specificity of 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="specified_prior" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Specified Prior</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">User-specified prior probabilities that do not sum to 1. A prior probability is an
estimate of the likelihood that a case belongs to a particular group when no other information about
it is available.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="spectral_analysis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Spectral Analysis</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A technique whereby a time series is decomposed into a sum of periodic functions plus
an error term.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gspectra02" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Spectral Density Plot</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A periodogram that has been smoothed to remove irregular variation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sphericity_assumed" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sphericity Assumed</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The values in this table are calculated assuming sphericity. Use Mauchly's test to
check sphericity for a repeated measures model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="spline_nominal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Spline Nominal</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Categories are treated as unordered. Objects in the same category obtain the same
quantification. Categories will be on a straight line through the origin. The resulting
transformation is a smooth piecewise polynomial.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="spline_ordinal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Spline Ordinal</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Categories are treated as ordered. The order of the categories of the observed variable
is preserved in the optimally scaled variable. Categories will be on a straight line through the
origin. The resulting transformation is a smooth nondecreasing piecewise polynomial of the chosen
Degree.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="split_values" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Split values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The values of the primary independent variable (predictor) that define the node.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sqrt_numexpr" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">SQRT(numexpr)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">SQRT(numexpr). Numeric. Returns the positive square root of numexpr, which must be
numeric and not negative.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="squared_coherency" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Squared coherency</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The product of the gains of the two series.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="squared_euclidean_distance_measure_binary_data" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Squared Euclidean Distance Measure (Binary Data)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The binary squared Euclidean dissimilarity measure. Computed from a fourfold table as
b+c, where b and c represent cases present on one item but absent on the other. Its minimum value is
0, and it has no upper limit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="squared_euclidean_distance_measure_interval_data" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Squared Euclidean Distance Measure (Interval Data)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of distance between pairs of cases. The distance between two cases is the sum
of the squared differences between the values of the cases. This dissimilarity measure is for
continuous data.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="squared_multiple_correlation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Squared Multiple Correlation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure for examining the relationship between individual items and the total scale,
this is the R-squared value of the multiple regression in which the given item is the dependent
variable and the remaining items are predictors. Smaller values indicate the given item is not well
correlated with the others.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="square_root" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Square Root</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies that a square root transformation was performed on the variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="square_root_design_effect" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Square Root Design Effect</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is a measure of the effect of specifying a complex design, where values further
from 1 indicate greater effects.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sscp_glm" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">SSCP (GLM)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Sums-of-squares and cross-product matrices. Hypothesis and error SSCP matrices are
displayed for each effect in the design. Each between-subjects effect has a different SSCP matrix,
but there is a single error matrix for all between-subjects effects. For repeated measures, each
within-subjects effect has both a hypothesis and an error matrix.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="stacked_area_chart" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Stacked Area Chart</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The chart has two or more lines, with the area below each line shaded differently. Each
line connects one point for each category, case or variable on the category axis. Lines can
represent groups of cases, separate variables, or individual cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="stacked_bar_chart" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Stacked Bar Chart</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Bar segments are stacked on top of one another. There is one bar stack for each
category, case, or variable on the category axis. Segments within each stack can represent groups of
cases, separate variables, or individual cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="stacked_pareto_chart" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Stacked Pareto Chart</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Bar segments are stacked on top of one another. There is one bar stack for each
category on the category axis. Segments within each stack can represent groups of cases, separate
variables, or individual cases. Stacks are sorted in descending order, and a line displaying the
cumulative sum is superimposed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="stage" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Stage</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Stage at which the clusters were joined</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="stage_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Stage</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The sampling specifications are presented by stage. Multiple stages are useful when you
want to subsample from groups defined by the cluster variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="stage_cluster_first_appears" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Stage cluster first appears</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Indicates stage at which the cluster was formed. 0 indicates that the cluster was a
single case prior to this stage.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standardizer" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standardizer</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The standardizer that is computed in estimating the Cohen’s <i>d</i> and Hedges’ <i>g</i>.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standard_deviation_9" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">standard deviation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of dispersion around the mean, equal to the square root of the variance. The
standard deviation is measured in the same units as the original variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standard_deviation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standard deviation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An estimate of the spread of the singular value. This measure indicates the stability
of the singular value in each dimension.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sd_mi" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standard Deviation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The standard deviation of the valid cases is reported for scale variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standard_deviation_8" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standard Deviation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The result of summing the squared deviations of the ratios about the mean, dividing the
result by the total number of ratios minus one, and taking the positive square root.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gbar11" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standard Deviation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of dispersion around the mean. In a normal distribution, 68% of cases fall
within one standard deviation of the mean and 95% of cases fall within two standard deviations. For
example, if the mean age is 45, with a standard deviation of 10, 95% of the cases would be between
25 and 65 in a normal distribution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standard_deviation_spchart" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standard Deviation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The process standard deviation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standard_deviation_aggregate_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standard Deviation (Aggregate Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The standard deviation of the source variable for all cases in the break group. </ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standard_deviation_lt_d" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standard Deviation &lt; d</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The standard deviation for these variables falls below a chosen threshold.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standard_deviation_in_dimension" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standard deviation in dimension</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An estimate of the spread of a point. This measure indicates the stability of the point
in each dimension.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standard_deviation_of_jonckheere-terpstra_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standard Deviation of Jonckheere-Terpstra Statistic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The standard deviation of the Jonckheere-Terpstra statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standard_deviation_of_marginal_homogeneity_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standard Deviation of Marginal Homogeneity Statistic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The standard deviation of the marginal homogeneity statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standard_error" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standard Error</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of how much the value of a test statistic varies from sample to sample. It is
the standard deviation of the sampling distribution for a statistic. For example, the standard error
of the mean is the standard deviation of the sample means.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry xml:lang="en-us" id="standard_error_2">
<glossterm>
<term>Std. Error</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph>The standard error of the estimated AUC statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standard_error_of_kurtosis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standard Error of Kurtosis</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The ratio of kurtosis to its standard error can be used as a test of normality (that
is, you can reject normality if the ratio is less than -2 or greater than +2). A large positive
value for kurtosis indicates that the tails of the distribution are longer than those of a normal
distribution; a negative value for kurtosis indicates shorter tails (becoming like those of a
box-shaped uniform distribution).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gfreq13" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standard Error of Mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of how much the value of the mean may vary from sample to sample taken from
the same distribution. It can be used to roughly compare the observed mean to a hypothesized value
(that is, you can conclude the two values are different if the ratio of the difference to the
standard error is less than -2 or greater than +2).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standard_error_of_skewness" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standard Error of Skewness</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The ratio of skewness to its standard error can be used as a test of normality (that
is, you can reject normality if the ratio is less than -2 or greater than +2). A large positive
value for skewness indicates a long right tail; an extreme negative value indicates a long left
tail.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standard_error_of_survival_k-m" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standard Error of Survival</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Standard error of the cumulative survival estimate. The default variable name is the
prefix se_ with a sequential number appended to it. For example, if se_1 already exists,
Kaplan-Meier assigns the variable name se_2.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standard_error_of_the_difference" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standard Error of the Difference</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The standard deviation of the sample differences.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry xml:lang="en-us" id="standard_error_of_the_difference_2">
<glossterm>
<term>Std. Error Difference</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph>Standard error of the AUC difference, which is defined by the square root of the sum of two
squared Std. Errors.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standard_error_of_the_estimate" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standard Error of the Estimate</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The standard error of model-estimated values of the dependent variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standardize_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">standardize</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Specifies whether standardization was applied. Standardization transforms the sequence
or time series variables into a sample with a mean of 0 and a standard deviation of 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standardized" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standardized</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The predicted value for each case, standardized to have a mean of 0 and a standard
deviation of 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standardized_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standardized</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The residual divided by an estimate of its standard error. Standardized residuals are
also known as Pearson residuals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standardized_cross-product" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standardized Cross-Product</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Equivalent to Pearson's correlation, except the means are assumed to be 0, since
regression is performed through the origin.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standardized_dfbeta" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standardized DfBeta</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Standardized difference in beta value. The change in the regression coefficient that
results from the exclusion of a particular case. You may want to examine cases with absolute values
greater than 2 divided by the square root of N, where N is the number of cases. A value is computed
for each term in the model, including the constant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standardized_dffit" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standardized DfFit</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Standardized difference in fit value. The change in the predicted value that results
from the exclusion of a particular case. You may want to examine standardized values which in
absolute value exceed 2 times the square root of p/N, where p is the number of parameters in the
model and N is the number of cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standardized_jonckheere-terpstra_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standardized Jonckheere-Terpstra Statistic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The standardized Jonckheere-Terpstra statistic is the statistic minus the mean, divided
by the standard deviation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standardized_marginal_homogeneity_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standardized Marginal Homogeneity Statistic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The standardized marginal homogeneity statistic is the statistic minus the mean,
divided by the standard deviation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standardized_predicted_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standardized Predicted Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A transformation of each predicted value into its standardized form. That is, the mean
predicted value is subtracted from the predicted value, and the difference is divided by the
standard deviation of the predicted values. Standardized predicted values have a mean of 0 and a
standard deviation of 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standardized_residuals" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standardized Residuals</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The residual divided by an estimate of its standard deviation. Standardized residuals,
which are also known as Pearson residuals, have a mean of 0 and a standard deviation of 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standardized_scores" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standardized Scores</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Scores that tells you how many standard deviation units above or below the mean a value
falls.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standardize_values_probability_plot" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standardize Values (Probability Plot)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Transforms the data into a sample with a mean of 0 and a standard deviation of 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="standard_variable_attributes" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Standard variable attributes</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Standard dictionary attributes such as format, variable and value labels, missing
values. Does not include user-defined custom variable attributes.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="start" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Start</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The seed and penalized stress (and the penalized stress's component parts) are
displayed for each random start. The start with the lowest penalized stress is used as the initial
configuration.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="stationarity" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Stationarity</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A condition that must be met by the time series to which you fit an ARIMA model. Pure
MA series will be stationary; however, AR and ARMA series might not be. A stationary series has a
constant mean and a constant variance over time.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="stationary_r-squared" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Stationary R-squared</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure that compares the stationary part of the model to a simple mean model. This
measure is preferable to ordinary R-squared when there is a trend or seasonal pattern. Stationary
R-squared can be negative with a range of negative infinity to 1. Negative values mean that the
model under consideration is worse than the baseline model. Positive values mean that the model
under consideration is better than the baseline model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Statistic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Summary measures used to describe the sample.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="statistic_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Statistic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the value of the statistic. Click the actual statistic name for more useful
information.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="statistics_22" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Statistics</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the Ljung-Box Q statistic for up to 18th order serial correlation in the
residuals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="statistics_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Statistics</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Requests optional statistical output including regression coefficients, descriptives,
model fit statistics, Durbin-Watson test, and collinearity diagnostic information.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="statistics_10" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Statistics</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Dimension containing statistics.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="statistics" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Statistics</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Requests statistics, and measures of association.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="statistics_5" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Statistics</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Requests optional descriptive statistics, function coefficients, and matrices.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="statistics_6" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Statistics</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to obtain optional statistics.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="statistics_checkbox" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Statistics Checkbox</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays statistics. To suppress statistical output, deselect this item.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="statistics_pushbutton_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Statistics Pushbutton</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Requests optional descriptive and summary statistics for numeric variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="statistics_pushbutton" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Statistics Pushbutton</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Requests optional statistics, including additional descriptive statistics and robust
estimators; displays outliers, or percentiles. You must choose to display either Statistics or Both
before you can request optional statistics.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="statistics_pushbutton_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Statistics Pushbutton</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to display an agglomeration schedule, a distance matrix or cluster
memberships.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="statistics_radio_button" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Statistics Radio Button</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays statistics only and suppresses plots. Basic descriptive statistics for each
variable are displayed by default.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="stat_type" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Stat Type</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Dimension containing statistical measures.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="status_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Status</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An X in the status column indicates the case is not the selected case defined by the
selection variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="status_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Status</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Indicates whether the case experienced the terminal event or was censored.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="std_dev_pooled" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Std. Dev</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The specified population standard deviation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="stem-and-leaf" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Stem-and-Leaf</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the distribution of values for a variable. Each observed value is subdivided
into two components--the leading digits (stem) and trailing digits (leaf).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="step_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Step</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Step number.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="step_limit_nonlinear_regression" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Step Limit (Nonlinear Regression)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The maximum permissible change in the length of the parameter vector. You may specify
any positive value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="step_statistics" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Step statistics</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Summary statistics for the specified step of the stepwise procedure</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="stepwise" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Stepwise</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">At each step, the independent variable not in the equation that has the smallest
probability of F is entered, if that probability is sufficiently small. Variables already in the
regression equation are removed if their probability of F becomes sufficiently large. The method
terminates when no more variables are eligible for inclusion or removal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="stopping_rule" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Stopping Rule</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the stopping rule that caused the algorithm to terminate iterations.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="strapplymodel_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">StrApplyModel(handle, "function", category)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">StrApplyModel(handle, "function", value). String. Applies a particular scoring function
to the input case data using the model specified by handle and where "function" is one of the
following string literal values enclosed in quotes: predict, stddev, probability, confidence,
nodeid, cumhazard, neighbor, distance. The model handle is the name associated with the external XML
file, as defined on the MODEL HANDLE command. The optional third argument applies when the function
is "probability", "neighbor", or "distance". For "probability", it specifies a category for which
the probability is calculated. For "neighbor" and "distance", it specifies a particular neighbor (as
an integer) for nearest neighbor models. StrApplyModel returns a blank string if a value cannot be
computed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="stratification" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Stratification</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Stratification variables define distinct subpopulations, or strata. Separate samples
are obtained for each stratum.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="stratum_label" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Stratum label</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Label identifying each stratum</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="stress_measures" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Stress measures</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The stress measures the misfit of the solution. A lower stress means a better fit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="string_numexpr_format" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">STRING(numexpr,format)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">STRING(numexpr,format). String. Returns the string that results when numexpr is
converted to a string according to format. STRING(-1.5,F5.2) returns the string value '-1.50'. The
second argument format must be a format for writing a numeric value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="string_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">String Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Values of a string variable are not numeric, and hence not used in calculations. They
can contain any characters up to the defined length. Upper and lower case letters are considered
distinct. Also known as alphanumeric variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gstringvariable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">String Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Values of a string variable are not numeric, and hence are not used in calculations.
String variables can be converted to or from numeric variables using the NUMBER and STRING functions
in the transformation language. In command syntax, values of string variables are specified within
single or double quotes.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sampling_zeros_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Structural Zeros</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cells that you have specified to be excluded from the analysis, through the use of the
Cell Structure variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="strunc" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">STRUNC (strexp, length)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">STRUNC(strexp, length). String. Returns strexp truncated to length (in bytes) and then
trimmed of any trailing blanks. Truncation removes any fragment of a character that would be
truncated. </ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="students_t_variates" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Student's t Variates</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Error terms are randomly drawn from a t distribution with the specified degrees of
freedom, and scaled by the root mean squared error (RMSE).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="studentized" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Studentized</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The residual divided by an estimate of its standard deviation that varies from case to
case, depending on the distance of the case's values of the independent variables from the means of
the independent variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="studentized_deleted" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Studentized Deleted</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The deleted residual for a case divided by its standard error. The difference between a
Studentized deleted residual and its associated Studentized residual indicates how much difference
eliminating a case makes on its own prediction.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="studentized_deleted_residual" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Studentized Deleted Residual</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The deleted residual for a case divided by its standard error. The difference between a
Studentized deleted residual and its associated Studentized residual indicates how much difference
eliminating a case makes on its own prediction.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="studentized_residual" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Studentized Residual</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The residual divided by an estimate of its standard deviation that varies from case to
case, depending on the distance of each case's values on the independent variables from the means of
the independent variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="studentized_residual_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Studentized Residual</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The change in the model deviance if a case is excluded.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="student-newman-keuls_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Student-Newman-Keuls Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The Student-Newman-Keuls test makes all pairwise comparisons between means using the
Studentized range distribution. It also compares pairs of means within homogeneous subsets, using a
stepwise procedure. Means are ordered from highest to lowest, and extreme differences are tested
first.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="subject" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Subject</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Respondent in a conjoint study.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="subjects_cscoxreg" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Subject (CSCoxreg) </term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A single subject in the study can be spread across multiple cases in order to
accommodate piecewise-constant predictors.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="subject_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Subject Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The combination of values of the specified variables should uniquely define subjects
within the dataset. For example, a single Patient ID variable should be sufficient to define
subjects in a single hospital, but the combination of Hospital ID and Patient ID may be necessary if
patient identification numbers are not unique across hospitals. In a repeated measures setting,
multiple observations are recorded for each subject, so each subject may occupy multiple cases in
the dataset.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="subject_variables" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Subject Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This lists the variables used to define subjects for this effect.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="subpoplation_size" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Subpoplation Size</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of units in the subpopulation at this stage.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="subpopulations_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Subpopulations</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of distinct subpopulations defined by the factors and covariates.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="subpopulation_subject_size" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Subpopulation Subject Size</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of subjects in the specified subpopulation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="subset" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Subset</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The procedure creates a sequence of subsets with an increasing number of predictors in
each subset.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="substr_strexpr_pos_length" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">SUBSTR(strexpr,pos,length)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">SUBSTR(strexpr,pos[,length]). String. Returns the substring beginning at byte position
pos of strexpr. The optional third argument represents the number of bytes in the substring. If the
optional argument length is omitted, returns the substring beginning at byte position pos of strexpr
and running to the end of strexpr.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="substr_strexpr_pos" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">SUBSTR(strexpr,pos)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">SUBSTR(strexpr,pos). String. Returns the substring beginning at position pos of strexpr
and running to the end of strexpr.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="successes" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Successes</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of times a focal category is observed for a binary response.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="success_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Success in Test 1</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The observed marginal total number of the pairs whose response denotes a “success” for test 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="success_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Success in Test 2</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The observed marginal total number of the pairs whose response denotes a “success” for test 2.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="success_failure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Success/Failure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The observed number of pairs whose response denotes a “success".</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sum_18" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sum</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The sum across dimensions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sum_19" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sum</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of central tendency that represents the arithmetic sum of the values of the
variable for the population.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sum" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sum</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The sum or total of the values, across all cases with nonmissing values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sum_numexpr_numexpr_.." xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">SUM(numexpr,numexpr[,..])</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">SUM(numexpr,numexpr[,..]). Numeric. Returns the sum of its arguments that have valid,
nonmissing values. This function requires two or more arguments, which must be numeric. You can
specify a minimum number of valid arguments for this function to be evaluated.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="threshold_sum" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sum (threshold)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The sum of the column vectors corresponding to threshold parameters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sum_col_pct_tables_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sum Col % (Tables Statistic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage whose numerator is the sum of the summarized variable over all cases in
the cell (times 100), and whose denominator is its sum over all cases in the column. Available for
summarized variables and their totals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sum_layer_pct_tables_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sum Layer % (Tables Statistic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage whose numerator is the sum of the summarized variable over all cases in
the cell (times 100), and whose denominator is its sum over all cases in the layer. Available for
summarized variables and their totals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="summary" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Summary</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays a Summary Table. For each step the output indicates entered or removed
variables and gives the resulting value of the statistic used for variable selection and its
significance.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="summary_inertia" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Summary inertia</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Generalized variance. Measure of the total dispersion of the points, taking their
marginal frequencies into account. This measure is the square of the singular value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="summary_total" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Summary total</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays statistics for the full dimensional solution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sum_of_case_weights_rank_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sum of Case Weights (Rank Cases)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the new variable equals the sum of case weights. The new variable is a
constant for all cases in the same group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sum_of_ranks" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sum of Ranks</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The sum of the ranks is used in calculating the test statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sum_of_squares" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sum of Squares</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The sum of the squared deviations about some quantity.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sum_of_squares_5" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sum of Squares</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The sum of squares is a measure of variation in the dependent variable, usually used to
evaluate the performance of a model. For example, the residual sum of squares for a model is the sum
of squared deviations between the observed and model predicted values of the dependent
variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sum_of_squares_change" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sum of squares change</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The iterative algorithm stops if the adjusted sums of squares does not decrease by
0.001% from one iteration to the next. You can choose a smaller or larger value for more or less
precision in the parameter estimates. For greater precision, it may be necessary to increase the
maximum iterations.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sum_of_squares_convergence" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sum of Squares Convergence</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">If successive iterations fail to change the sum of squares by this proportion, the
procedure stops. To override the default value, select an alternate convergence value from the
drop-down list or select disable to disable this criterion.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sum_of_values_aggregate_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sum of Values (Aggregate Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The sum of the values of the source variable for all cases in the break group. </ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gbar10" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sum of Values (Graph Summary Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The sum of the values within the category. This is the default for stacked bar charts,
stacked area charts, or pie charts.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sum_percentage" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sum Percentage</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The cell sum as a percentage of the total.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sum_row_pct_tables_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sum Row % (Tables Statistic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage whose numerator is the sum of the summarized variable over all cases in
the cell (times 100), and whose denominator is its sum over all cases in the row. Available for
summarized variables and their totals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sums_of_squares_and_cross_products" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sums of Squares and Cross Products</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The residual SSCP matrix is a square matrix that consists of sums of squares and cross
products of residuals. The dimension of this matrix is the same as the number of dependent variables
in the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sum_subtable_pct_tables_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sum Subtable % (Tables Statistic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage whose numerator is the sum of the summarized variable over all cases in
the cell (times 100), and whose denominator is its sum over all cases in the smallest subtable
containing the cell. Available for summarized variables and their totals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sum_table_pct_tables_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sum Table % (Tables Statistic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage whose numerator is the sum of the summarized variable over all cases in
the cell (times 100), and whose denominator is its sum over all cases in the table. Available for
summarized variables and their totals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gscatter06" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Sunflower</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A symbol that represents one or more cases that occur very close together on a
scatterplot. Cases are represented as sunflower "petals," spikes extending from the sunflower.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="supplementary_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Supplementary Cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cases (objects) that are to be analyzed using the solution found.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="suppress_absolute_values_less_than_n" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Suppress Absolute Values Less Than n</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Suppresses coefficients with absolute values less than the specified value. The default
is 0.10. To override the default, enter a number between 0 and 1.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="suppress_tables" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Suppress Tables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays crosstabulation statistical measures without showing the actual tables. If no
statistics are selected on the Crosstabs Statistics dialog box, no output will be generated.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="suppress_tables_with_more_than_n_categories" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Suppress Tables with More Than n Categories</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Suppresses frequency tables for variables with more than the specified number of
categories. Particularly useful if your variable list contains a mixture of categorical and
continuous variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="surrogates_tree" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Surrogate</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The best replacement independent variable (predictor) to use for cases with missing
values on the primary predictor. If the best predictor to be used for a split has a missing value at
a node, then CRT or QUEST will substitute the surrogate predictor.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="survival_k-m" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Survival</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cumulative survival probability estimate. The default variable name is the prefix sur_
with a sequential number appended to it. For example, if sur_1 already exists, Kaplan-Meier assigns
the variable name sur_2.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="survival" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Survival</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the cumulative survival function for a given time. It equals the
probability of survival to that time period.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="survival_plot" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Survival Plot</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the cumulative survival function on a linear scale.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="survival_time_interval" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Survival Time Interval</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">If a pattern is specified with piecewise-constant predictors, this column shows the
interval for which each set of predictor values applies.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="symmetric" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Symmetric</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The form calculated by summing the numerators and denominators of the two forms where
each variable in turn is classified as dependent and calculating the ratio.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="symmetric_measures" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Symmetric Measures</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Symmetric measures of association are those in which interchanging the two variables in
the calculation does not alter the value of the measure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="sysmis_numvar" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">SYSMIS(numvar)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">SYSMIS(numvar). Logical. Returns 1 or true if the value of numvar is system-missing.
The argument numvar must be the name of a numeric variable in the active dataset.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="system_file" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">System File</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A new data file containing the variance components, covariance matrix, or correlation
matrix.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="system-missing" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">System-Missing</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Recodes specified old values into the system-missing value. The system-missing value is
not used in calculations, and cases with the system-missing value are excluded from many procedures.
Not available for string variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gsysmis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">System-Missing Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Values assigned by the program when values in your data are undefined according to the
format type you have specified, when a numeric field is blank, or when a value resulting from a
transformation command is undefined. Numeric system-missing values are displayed as periods. String
variables cannot have system-missing values, since any character is legal in a string variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="t" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">t</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A test statistic which, under the null hypothesis, has a t distribution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="table" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Table</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This table displays information for the variables below.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="def_table" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Table (output item type)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Many statistical procedures generate output in pivot tables. You can activate a pivot
table and use the Pivot Table editor to pivot different dimensions of the table or reformat its
labels, data cells, or table look in general.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="tablelook" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">TableLook</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the name of the current TableLook file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="tablelook_files" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">TableLook Files</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists available TableLook files that can be applied to pivot tables. A number of
TableLooks are included with the software, or you can create your own.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="tamhanes_t2_post_hoc" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Tamhane's T2 (Post Hoc)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Conservative pairwise comparisons test based on a t test. This test is appropriate when
the variances are unequal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="target_spchart" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Target</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The target value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="target_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Target Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A variable that contains the result of a transformation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="target_variable_list_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Target Variable List</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the variables to be summarized.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="target_variable_list" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Target Variable List</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the variables in the current layer. Separate crosstabulations are produced for
each category of each control variable. Each layer divides the crosstabulation into smaller groups.
Crosstabulations are produced within each combination of categories for each 1st-layer variable with
each 2nd-layer variable; and so on.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="tarones_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Tarone's statistic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Tarone's statistic is similar to the Breslow-Day statistic, but it corrects for the
estimator used to measure the common odds ratio.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="tarone-ware" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Tarone-Ware</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A test for comparing the equality of survival distributions. Time points are weighted
by the square root of the number of cases at risk at each time point.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="temporary_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Temporary Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variables used to save model results to the working file</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="term_removed" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Term Removed</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The term being evaluated for removal</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="territorial_map" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Territorial Map</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A plot of the boundaries used to classify cases into groups based on function values.
The numbers correspond to groups into which cases are classified. The mean for each group is
indicated by an asterisk within its boundaries. The map is not displayed if there is only one
discriminant function.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the types of tests.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_28" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Refers to cases held out during model building for use in testing the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_assumptions" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test Assumptions</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The test assumptions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_data_criterion" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test Data Criterion</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A "best" subset criterion based on the average log-likelihood of the test data. Smaller
values indicate better subsets.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="testing_partition" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Testing</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The testing sample is an independent set of data records used to track prediction error
during training in order to prevent overtraining.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_mean" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test Mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is a test definition.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_for_mean" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test for Mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Estimate of the directional or non-directional power for one-sample t-test.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_for_mean_difference" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test for Mean Difference</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Estimates the power for two-sample test for mean difference with paired groups.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_model_file" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test model file</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The text file that contains the test sample model in XML (PMML) format.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_proportion_difference" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test for Proportion Difference</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The two-sided or one-sided test for proportion difference, depending on a 
non-directional or directional test.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_of_fucntions" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test of functions</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Indicates the functions compared by the test statistic</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_of_linearity" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test of Linearity</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Calculates the sum of squares, degrees of freedom, and mean square associated with
linear and nonlinear components, as well as the F ratio, R and R-squared. Linearity is not
calculated if the independent variable is a short string.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_of_parallel_lines_ordinal_regression" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test of Parallel Lines (Ordinal Regression)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Performs a test of the hypothesis that the slopes are equal across all categories of
the dependent variable. This option is valid for location-only models.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_of_parallel_lines_chi-square" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test of Parallel Lines Chi-Square</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The score statistic for the test of parallel lines is asymptotically chi-squared
distributed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_of_parallel_lines_significance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test of Parallel Lines significance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A statistical test of the assumption that the regression coefficients are equal across
the values of the dependent variable. Small values (less than .1) indicate that the assumption is
not valid.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_pair_s_list" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test Pair(s) List</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the pairs of variables you have chosen for the analysis. This list must
contain at least one pair of variables to run this procedure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_proportion_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test Proportion</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The default null hypothesis is that the data are from a binomial distribution with a
probability of 0.5 for both groups. To change the probabilities, enter a test proportion for the
first group; the value must be between .001 and .999 and cannot include leading zeros.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_proportion" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test Proportion</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The probability of success (p) for the specified binomial distribution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_sample" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test sample</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">For split-sample validation, the results based on applying the training sample model to
the cases not used in the training sample.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_type" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test Type</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The method used in constructing a Z test statistic or calculating an exact p value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_value_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the significance test statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_value_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A numeric value against which the mean of each test variable is tested.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_value_5" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The hypothesized value of the contrast.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_value_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The prespecified value to which the estimate is compared</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A value used as a cutting point in the creation of a dichotomous variable. Cases with
values smaller than the test value fall into one group, cases with values greater than or equal to
the test value fall into the other group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_variable_s" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test Variable(s)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the variables you have chosen for the analysis. The mean must be an
appropriate summary statistic for the Test Variable(s).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_variable_list" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test Variable List</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the variables you have chosen for the analysis. Each variable produces a
separate test.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="test_variables" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Test Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the numeric variables you have selected; this procedure will compare the
distributions of these variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="def_text" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Text (output item type)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Text output. You can activate the output as a text object.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="textsmart_information" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">TextSmart Information</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Indicates whether or not the data file contains TextSmart information.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="the_div_operator" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">The / Operator</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Division. The preceding term is divided by the following term. Both terms must be
numeric, and the second must not be zero.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="the_noteq_operator" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">The ~= Operator</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Logical Inequality. True for terms that are not exactly equal. If string terms are of
unequal length, the shorter term is padded on the right with spaces before the comparison. This
operator is normally used only in a logical condition.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="the_not_operator" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">The ~ Operator</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Logical Not. True if the following term is false. The terms may be logical or numeric;
a numeric term not equal to 0 or 1 is treated as missing. This operator is normally used only in a
logical condition.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="the_operator" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">The ( ) Operator</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Grouping. Operators and functions within parentheses are evaluated before operators and
functions outside the parentheses. If text is selected in the Expression when you paste parentheses,
the text is placed inside the parentheses. If no text is selected, the cursor is placed inside the
parentheses.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="the_exp_operator" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">The ** Operator</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Exponentiation. The preceding term is raised to the power of the following term. If the
preceding term is negative, the following term must be an integer. This operator can produce values
too large or too small for the computer to process, particularly if the following term (the
exponent) is very large or very small.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="the_mult_operator" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">The * Operator</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Multiplication. The preceding and following terms are multiplied. Both terms must be
numeric.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="the_and_operator" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">The &amp; Operator</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Logical And. True if both preceding and following terms are logically true. The terms
may be logical or numeric; numeric terms not equal to 0 or 1 are treated as missing. This operator
is normally used only in a logical condition.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="the_add_operator" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">The + Operator</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Addition. The preceding term is added to the following term. Both terms must be
numeric.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="the_le_operator" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">The &lt;= Operator</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Logical Less Than Or Equal. True for numeric terms if the preceding term is less than
or equal to the following term. True for string terms if the preceding term appears earlier than the
following term in the collating sequence (in alphabetical order), or if the two are equal. This
operator is normally used only in a logical condition.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="the_lt_operator" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">The &lt; Operator</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Logical Less Than. True for numeric terms if the preceding term is less than the
following term. True for string terms if the preceding term appears earlier than the following term
in the collating sequence (in alphabetical order). This operator is normally used only in a logical
condition.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="the_eq_operator" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">The = Operator</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Logical Equality. True for terms that are exactly equal. If string terms are of unequal
length, the shorter term is padded on the right with spaces before the comparison. This operator is
normally used only in a logical condition.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="the_ge_operator" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">The >= Operator</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Logical Greater Than Or Equal. True for numeric terms if the preceding term is greater
than or equal to the following term. True for string terms if the preceding term appears later than
the following term in the collating sequence (in alphabetical order), or if the two are equal. This
operator is normally used only in a logical condition.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="the_gt_operator" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">The > Operator</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Logical Greater Than. True for numeric terms if the preceding term is greater than the
following term. True for string terms if the preceding term appears later than the following term in
the collating sequence (in alphabetical order). This operator is normally used only in a logical
condition.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="the_or_operator" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">The | Operator</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Logical Or. True if either the preceding or the following term is logically true (or if
both are true). The terms may be logical or numeric; numeric terms not equal to 0 or 1 are treated
as missing. This operator is normally used only in a logical condition.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="the_estimation_period_is" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">The Estimation Period is</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is defined with the Range subdialog box of the Select Cases option on the Data
menu. If no estimation period has been defined, all cases are used to predict values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="the_-_operator" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">The - Operator</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Subtraction. The following term is subtracted from the preceding term. Both terms must
be numeric.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="proximites_in_single_column" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">The proximites are stacked in a single column</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The proximity matrices are collapsed into a single column, or variable. Three
additional variables, identifying the row, column, and source for each cell, are necessary. This
leads to the Proximities in One Column dialog box.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="proximities_in_a_matrix_across_columns" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">The proximities are in a matrix across columns</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The proximity matrix is spread across a number of columns equal to the number of
objects. This leads to the Proximities in Matrices across Columns dialog box.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="proximities_in_a_single_column" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">The proximities are in a single column</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The proximity matrix is collapsed into a single column, or variable. Two additional
variables, identifying the row and column for each cell, are necessary. This leads to the
Proximities in One Column dialog box.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="proximities_in_columns_one_source_per_column" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">The proximities are in columns, one source per column</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The proximity matrices are collapsed into multiple columns, or variables. Two
additional variables, identifying the row and column for each cell, are necessary. This leads to the
Proximities in Columns dialog box.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="proximities_in_stacked_matrices_across_columns" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">The proximities are in stacked matrices across columns</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The proximity matrices are spread across a number of columns equal to the number of
objects and are stacked above one another across a number of rows equal to the number of objects
times the number of sources. This leads to the Proximities in Matrices across Columns dialog
box.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="threshold" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">threshold</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The threshold parameter for the distribution. For instance, for the Pareto distribution
this is the parameter 'a' in PARETO(a,b).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="threshold_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Threshold</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The thresholds or constants in the model (corresponding to the intercept in linear
regression models) depend only on which category's probability is being predicted. Values of the
predictor (independent) variables do not affect this part of the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gaxis04" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Tick Mark</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays marks along the axis that indicate the categories or values of a
variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ties" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Ties</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Two or more observations or variables having the same value or rank.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="time_7" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Time</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Time at which the functions are evaluated. Values of time represent observed uncensored
survival times in the data.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="time_8" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Time</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The time at which the event or censoring occurred.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="time" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Time</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to select Time as your independent variable instead of a variable from the
active dataset. If you select Time, the dependent variable should be a time series measure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="time.days_days" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">TIME.DAYS(days)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">TIME.DAYS(days). Numeric. Returns a time interval corresponding to the indicated number
of days. The argument must be numeric. To display the result as a time, assign a time format to the
result variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="time.hms_hours_min_sec" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">TIME.HMS(hours[,min,sec])</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">TIME.HMS(hours[,minutes,seconds]). Numeric. Returns a time interval corresponding to
the indicated number of hours, minutes, and seconds. The minutes and seconds arguments are optional.
Minutes and seconds must resolve to numbers less than 60 if any higher-order argument is non-zero.
All arguments except the last non-zero argument must resolve to integers. For example TIME.HMS(25.5)
and TIME.HMS(0,90,25.5) are valid, while TIME.HMS(25.5,30) and TIME.HMS(25,90) are invalid. All
arguments must resolve to either all positive or all negative values. To display the result as a
time, assign a time format to the result variable. </ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="time_series_data" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Time Series Data</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Corresponds to the sequence of values for a single variable in ordinary data analysis.
Each case (row) in the data represents an observation at a different time. The observations must be
taken at equally spaced time intervals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="def_title" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Title (output item type)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The output from each procedure has a title preceding the results. You can activate it
as a text object.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="toeplitz" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Toeplitz</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This covariance structure has homogenous variances and heterogeneous correlations
between elements. The correlation between adjacent elements is homogenous across pairs of adjacent
elements. The correlation between elements separated by a third is again homogenous, and so on.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="tolerance_regression" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Tolerance (Regression)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A statistic used to determine how much the independent variables are linearly related
to one another (multicollinear). The proportion of a variable's variance not accounted for by other
independent variables in the equation. A variable with very low tolerance contributes little
information to a model, and can cause computational problems. It is calculated as 1 minus R squared
for an independent variable when it is predicted by the other independent variables already included
in the analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="total_10" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Total</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Total variance explained for the given variable/factor/component.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="total_12" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Total</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Total number of cases for each group</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="total_14" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Total</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The total number of cases/objects.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="total_19" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Total</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Total number of cases for all subcategories</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="total" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Total</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The total number of cases used in producing a result.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="total_21" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Total</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The total number of cases across subgroups, including those excluded from the
computations.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="total_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Total</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the statistics for the entire sample.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="total_23" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Total</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The total dispersion in the data.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="total_9" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Total</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The total variation in the dependent variable about the origin.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="total_eigenvalue" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Total (Eigenvalue)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The sum of the variance accounted for by Multiple Nominal and Non Multiple Nominal
variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="cumulative_generic_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Total (generic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A total of some kind.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="total_covariance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Total Covariance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays a covariance matrix from all cases as if they were from a single sample.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="total_excluded" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Total excluded</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The total number of cases excluded from the analysis</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="total_loss" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Total Loss</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The total loss, or variance not accounted for, is equal to the centroid coordinates
loss plus the restriction of centroid to vector coordinates loss.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="total_n_of_items" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Total N of Items</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The total number of items used in the associated calculations.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="total_percentage_crosstabs" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Total Percentage (Crosstabs)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of all the cases in the crosstabulation, or the current subtable of the
crosstabulation, that are within a cell.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="total_proximities" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Total Proximities</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The total number of proximities in the matrices; it is equal to the number of missing
and active proximities.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="totals" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Totals</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Requests totals in each dimension of the table. If variables are nested in any
dimension, subgroup totals are calculated for that dimension.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="total_sum_of_squares" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Total Sum of Squares</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The sum of the squared distances of the observed values of a variable from the
variable's mean. The sum of squares is a measure of the total variation in a variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="total_vaf" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Total VAF</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The total variance accounted for by the model. Better models generally explain more
variance.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="tp_diagonal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">TP diagonal</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The homogenous diagonal term for the Toeplitz covariance structure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="tph_rho_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">TPH rho ^1</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A correlation term for the Heterogeneous Toeplitz covariance structure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="tp_rho_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">TP rho ^1</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A correlation term for the Toeplitz covariance structure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gaxis10" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Trailing Character</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A character added to the end of all the labels on the scale axis. For example, a
trailing character might be a percentage sign at the end of each label.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="training" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Training</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Refers to cases used to build, or train, the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="training_partition" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Training</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The training sample comprises the data records used to train the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="training_model_file" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Training model File</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The text file that contains the training sample model in XML (PMML) format.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="training_sample" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Training sample</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">For split-sample validation, the results for the training sample. That model is then
tested by applying the model to the remaining cases not used in the training sample. If split-sample
validation is not in effect, the training sample model is the model based on all cases available for
the analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="training_time" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Training time</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The total time used to train the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="transform" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Transform</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">To analyze the dependent variable in a logarithmic scale, select one of the
alternatives on the drop-down list. If you select a log transformation, ARIMA transforms the
predicted values (fit) and confidence intervals (lcl and ucl) that it creates back into the original
metric but leaves the residuals (err) in the log metric for diagnostic purposes.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="transformation_type" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Transformation Type</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The optimal scaling level: numerical, ordinal or nominal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="transformed" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Transformed</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Transforms the data according to the function that you specify and plots the
interquartile range and median of the transformed data. After selecting Transformed, select a
transformation function.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="transformed_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Transformed Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A variable transformed by the coefficients in the M matrix, in the model LBM=K.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="transient" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Transient</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An outlier whose impact decays exponentially to 0.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="trend" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Trend</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Long-term changes in the level of a series. A time series with trend cannot be
meaningfully described by the overall mean and standard deviation, for both statistics will be
influenced by the point and span in time at which the series is observed. The autocorrelation
function plot of a series characterized by trend dies out in a slow linear fashion, so that
autocorrelations significantly different from 0 can be found at high lags. Typically, trend is
removed by the differencing transformation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gx11arima03" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Trend Cycle</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The smoothed original series.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gexsmooth06" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Trend Gamma Value (Exponential Smoothing)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Exponential smoothing parameter that controls the relative weight given to recent
observations in estimating the present series trend. It ranges from 0 to 1, with higher values
giving more weight to recent values. Gamma is used only for exponential smoothing models with a
linear or exponential trend, or a damped trend and no seasonal component. It is not used for the
simple model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gexsmooth08" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Trend Modification Phi Value (Exponential Smoothing)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Exponential smoothing parameter that controls the rate at which a trend is "damped," or
reduced in magnitude over time. It ranges from 0 to 1 (but cannot equal 1), with values near 1
representing more gradual damping. Phi is used for exponential smoothing models with a damped trend.
It is not used for the simple, Holt, or Winters models.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="trends_date_information" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Trends Date Information</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Indicates whether or not the data file contains Trends information.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="trials" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Trials</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of observations on which a proportion is based.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gtrichotomy" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Trichotomous Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A variable that has precisely three distinct values, apart from missing values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="trimmed_control_group_span" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Trimmed Control Group Span</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The span of the control group after outliers have been trimmed from each end of the
control group. Outliers can distort the range of the span. See Observed Control Group Span for a
definition of the span.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="trimmed_mean" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">trimmed mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The arithmetic mean calculated when the largest n% and the smallest n% of the cases
have been eliminated. Eliminating extreme cases from the computation of the mean results in a better
estimate of central tendency, especially when the data are nonnormal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="true_variance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">True Variance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The "true" variance of a scale is the portion of the common variance that is not due to
error. Common variance = true variance + error variance.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="trunc_numexpr" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">TRUNC(numexpr,mult,fuzzbits)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">TRUNC(numexpr[,mult,fuzzbits]). Numeric. Returns the value of numexpr truncated toward
0. The optional second argument, mult, specifies that the result is an integer multiple of this
value—for example, TRUNC(4.579,0.1) = 4.5. The value must be numeric but cannot be 0. The default is
1. The optional third argument, fuzzbits, is the number of least-significant bits by which numexpr
may fall short of the nearest rounding boundary and be rounded up before truncating. For example, if
numexpr is between 1.4 and 1.5 and mult is 0.1 then fuzzbits specifies how close numexpr can be to
1.5 (the nearest boundary) and be rounded up. If omitted, the system setting of FUZZBITS (set to 6
at install time) is used.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="truncate_case_weights" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Truncate case weights</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Case weights are truncated before use.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="truncate_cell_counts" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Truncate cell counts</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Case weights are used as is but the accumulated weights in the cells are truncated
before computing any statistics.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="t_statistic_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">t statistic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Statistic used to test the null hypothesis that there is no linear relationship between
a dependent variable and an independent variable or, in other words, that a regression coefficient
is equal to 0. When the significance level is small (less than 0.10) the coefficient is considered
significant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="t_statistic_4" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">t statistic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Statistic used to test the null hypothesis that the coefficient of the associated model
parameter is zero.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="t_statistic_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">t Statistic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Test statistic used to determine if a specified contrast is significant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="t_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">t Statistic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Statistic used for testing the null hypothesis that two population means are
equal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="t_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">t test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A statistical test that compares the mean values of two groups. When the test result is
statistically significant, the means are different.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="t-test_for_equality_of_means" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">t-test for Equality of Means</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Tests if two population means are equal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="tuckers_coefficient_of_congruence" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Tucker's Coefficient of Congruence</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Tucker's coefficient of congruence is the square root of the dispersion accounted for,
and is a measure of the overall fit of the model. The higher the Tucker's coefficient, the better
the fit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="tukeys_probability_plot" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Tukey's (Probability Plot)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Calculates the expected normal distribution using the formula (r-1/3) / (n+1/3), where
n is the number of observations, and r is the rank, ranging from 1 to n.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="tukeys_biweight_estimator_explore" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Tukey's Biweight Estimator (Explore)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Tukey's biweight estimator assigns weights of zero for observations with standardized
values greater than 4.685 and weights inversely proportional to the distance from the center for all
other observations.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="tukeys_b_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Tukey's b Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Uses the Studentized range distribution to make pairwise comparisons between groups.
The critical value is the average of the corresponding value for the Tukey's honestly significant
difference test and the Student-Newman-Keuls.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="tukeys_hinges_explore" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Tukey's Hinges (Explore)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Summary values in the middle of each half of the data. They are about a quarter of the
way in from each end of the ordered values. These values are used to compute the interquartile range
for the box plots.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="tukeys_honestly_significant_difference" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Tukey's Honestly Significant Difference</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Uses the Studentized range statistic to make all of the pairwise comparisons between
groups. Sets the experimentwise error rate at the error rate for the collection for all pairwise
comparisons.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="tukey_rank_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Tukey (Rank Cases)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Uses the formula (r-1/3) / (w+1/3), where r is the rank and w is the sum of the case
weights.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gspectra03" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Tukey-Hamming Window</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The weights are Wk = .54Dp(2 pi fk) + .23Dp (2 pi fk + pi/p) + .23Dp (2 pi fk - pi/p),
for k = 0, ..., p, where p is the integer part of half the span and Dp is the Dirichlet kernel of
order p.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gspectra04" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Tukey Window</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The weights are Wk = 0.5Dp(2 pi fk) + 0.25Dp (2 pi fk + pi/p) + 0.25Dp(2 pi fk - pi/p),
for k = 0, ..., p, where p is the integer part of half the span and Dp is the Dirichlet kernel of
order p.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="two_sided_p" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Two-Sided p</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A p-value appropriate for the usual case where the observed direction of a relationship 
has not been predicted in advance or a test involves multiple parameters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="two-tailed_asymptotic_significance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Two-Tailed Asymptotic Significance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The probability, based on the asymptotic distribution of a test statistic and assuming
that the data set is large, of obtaining results as extreme as the one observed, and in either
direction when the null hypothesis is true. A two-tailed significance level tests a null hypothesis
in which the direction of an effect is not specified in advance.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="two-tailed_significance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Two-Tailed Significance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The probability of obtaining results as extreme as the one observed, and in either
direction when the null hypothesis is true. A two-tailed significance level tests a null hypothesis
in which the direction of an effect is not specified in advance.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="type" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Type</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the types of residual statistics.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="type_8" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Type</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Type of estimates reported</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="type_iii_f_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Type III F-test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def"></ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="type_iii_sum_of_squares" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Type III Sum of Squares</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The Type III Sum of Squares method calculates the sum of squares adjusted for any other
effects that do not contain the effect of interest, and orthogonal to any effects that contain it.
This method can be used for balanced and unbalanced designs.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="type_ii_sum_of_squares" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Type II sum of Squares</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The Type II sum of squares method calculates the sum of squares of an effect in the
model adjusted for all other appropriate effects (one that corresponds to all effects that do not
contain the effect being examined).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="type_i_sum_of_squares" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Type I Sum of Squares</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">In Type I sum of squares, each term is adjusted only for the terms that precede it in
the model. This type of sum of squares is also known as hierarchical decomposition. Under a balanced
design it is an orthogonal decomposition, and the sums of squares in the model add up to the total
sum of squares.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="type_iv_sum_of_squares" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Type IV Sum of Squares</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The Type IV sum of squares method, for effects contained in other effects, distributes
the contrasts being made among the parameters to all higher-level effects equitably. This method is
often used if there are empty cells.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="type_of_contrast" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Type of Contrast</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The type of contrast.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ucl" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">UCL</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Upper confidence limit for the forecasted value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="un_1_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">UN: (^1,^2)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This parameter defines the specified row and column of an Unstructured covariance
matrix.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="unadjusted" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Unadjusted</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Estimates are not unadjusted for factors and covariates.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="unadjusted_sig." xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Unadjusted Sig.</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The significance value of the test, uncorrected for multiple comparisons.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="uncensored" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Uncensored</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cases that experience the terminal event.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="uncertainty_coefficient" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Uncertainty Coefficient</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of association that indicates the proportional reduction in error when values
of one variable are used to predict values of the other variable. For example, a value of 0.83
indicates that knowledge of one variable reduces error in predicting values of the other variable by
83%. The program calculates both symmetric and asymmetric versions of the uncertainty
coefficient.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="unconditional_least_squares" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Unconditional least squares</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The forecasts are unconditional least squares forecasts. They are also called finite
memory forecasts.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="unconstrained_matrix" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Unconstrained Matrix</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The inter-item covariance matrix without any constraints upon its structure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="uncorrected_total" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Uncorrected Total</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Statistics related to the entire variance in the dependent variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="unexplained_variance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Unexplained Variance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">At each step, the variable that minimizes the sum of the unexplained variation between
groups is entered.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="ungrouped_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Ungrouped cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cases which have either missing or out-of-range values for the grouping variable. These
cases are excluded when estimating the discriminant function(s), but statistics are reported for
these cases to assist with finding potential problems in your model or dataset.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="uniform" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Uniform</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The observed cumulative distribution function is compared to the uniform distribution
where the observed minimum and maximum values define the range.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="uniform_distribution_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">uniform_distribution</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The uniform distribution takes two parameters, a and b. The first parameter a must be
less than or equal to the second parameter b. A uniform variate takes values between these two
parameters with equal probability; its density function is flat.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="uniform_max" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">UNIFORM(max)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">UNIFORM(max). Numeric. Returns a uniformly distributed pseudorandom number between 0
and the argument max, which must be numeric (but can be negative).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="uniform_parameters" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Uniform Parameters</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The parameters of the uniform distribution against which the observed distribution is
being tested.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="unique" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Unique</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Evaluates all effects simultaneously, adjusting each effect for all other effects of
any type.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="univariate_anovas" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Univariate ANOVAs</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Performs a one-way analysis-of-variance test for equality of group means for each
independent variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="univariate_descriptives" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Univariate Descriptives</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the number of valid observations, the mean, and the standard deviation for
each variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="univariate_statistics_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">univariate statistics</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">These are descriptive statistics that are computed "one variable at a time".</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="unrotated_factor_solution" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Unrotated Factor Solution</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays unrotated factor loadings (factor pattern matrix), communalities, and
eigenvalues for the factor solution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="unselected" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Unselected</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays information for cases not selected by the selection variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="unselected_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Unselected</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variables not selected by the procedure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="unstandardized" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Unstandardized</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the unstandardized discriminant function coefficients.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="unstandardized_coefficients" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Unstandardized Coefficients</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the regression coefficients with their standard errors.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="unstandardized_residual_crosstabs" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Unstandardized Residual (Crosstabs)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The difference between an observed value and the expected value. The expected value is
the number of cases you would expect in the cell if there were no relationship between the two
variables. A positive residual indicates that there are more cases in the cell than there would be
if the row and column variables were independent.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="unstandardized_residuals" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Unstandardized Residuals</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The difference between an observed value and the value predicted by the model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="unstructured" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Unstructured</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is a completely general covariance matrix.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="unstructured_correlations" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Unstructured Correlations</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This covariance structure has heterogeneous variances and heterogeneous
correlations.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="untransformed" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Untransformed</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Produces plots of the raw data. No transformation of the data is performed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="unweighted" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Unweighted</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The statistic computed based upon the number of units in the sample.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="unweighted_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Unweighted Cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases used to produce the result shown.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="unweighted_count" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Unweighted Count</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of units in the sample.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="unweighted_least-squares_method" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Unweighted Least-Squares Method</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A factor extraction method that minimizes the sum of the squared differences between
the observed and reproduced correlation matrices (ignoring the diagonals).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="unweighted_linear_term" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Unweighted Linear Term</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The sum of squares for the linear term when the orthogonal polynomial contrast ignores
different sample sizes in the groups.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="unweighted_n" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Unweighted N</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Raw (unweighted) number of cases in each category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="unweighted_n_tables_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Unweighted N (Tables Statistic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The unweighted number of cases in the cell. Available for grouping variables and their
totals in weighted data files. Use Count for weighted grouping variables; Valid Value Count for
summarized variables; Respondents for multiple-response sets.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="unweighted_unfiltered_n" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Unweighted N (unfiltered)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Unweighted number of cases, ignoring filter status.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="unweighted_number_of_cases_aggregate_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Unweighted Number of Cases (Aggregate Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The unweighted number of cases in the break group with valid data for the source
variable, unless Missing is also selected, in which case this produces the unweighted number of
cases with missing data for the source variable. This has no effect unless case weighting is in
effect.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="upcas_strexpr" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">UPCASE(strexpr)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">UPCASE(strexpr). String. Returns strexpr with lowercase letters changed to uppercase
and other characters unchanged.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="update_type" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Update Type</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">After the initial estimates, specifies at each step whether the scoring or Newton
algorithm for updating is used.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="update_type_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Update Type</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This specifies whether the Newton-Raphson or Fisher scoring method was used to update
the parameter estimates for the given iteration.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="upper_bound" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Upper Bound</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The largest value included in the confidence interval. Values that exceed the upper
bound fall outside the range of the confidence interval.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="upper_bound_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Upper Bound</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The largest value included in the interval. Values greater than the upper bound fall
outside the range of the interval.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="usage_type" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Usage Type</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The PMML usage type. The possible values are active (a field used as input), predicted
(a field whose value is predicted by the model), and supplementary (a field containing descriptive
information not required for the model). For more information, see
http://www.dmg.org/v3-1/MiningSchema.html.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="use_beginning_series_values" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Use beginning series values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The beginning series values are used to initialize the recursive conditional least
squares forecasting algorithm.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="used_in_output" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Used in Output</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases used in the output. The number of cases processed minus the number
of cases excluded.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="use_filter_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Use Filter Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Use the selected numeric variable from the data file as the filter variable. Cases with
any value other than 0 or missing for the filter variable are selected.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="use_f_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Use F Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A variable is entered into the model if its F value is greater than the Entry value and
is removed if the F value is less than the Removal value. Entry must be greater than Removal, and
both values must be positive. To enter more variables into the model, lower the Entry value. To
remove more variables from the model, increase the Removal value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="use_model_constant" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Use model constant</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The forecasts are computed by assuming that the unobserved past errors are 0 and that
the unobserved past values of the response series are equal to the mean.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="use_probability_of_f" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Use Probability of F</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A variable is entered into the model if the significance level of its F value is less
than the Entry value and is removed if the significance level is greater than the Removal value.
Entry must be less than Removal, and both values must be positive. To enter more variables into the
model, increase the Entry value. To remove more variables from the model, lower the Removal
value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="user_missing_values" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">User-Missing Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Values you have specified as missing. You can specify individual missing values for
numeric or string variables or a range of missing values for numeric variables. See also
system-missing values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gusermis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">User-Missing Values (syntax)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Values you have specified should be treated as missing, using MISSING VALUES in command
syntax. You can specify individual missing values for numeric or string variables or a range of
missing values for numeric variables. See also system-missing values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="use_specified_range" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Use Specified Range</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Categories are established for each value within the inclusive range, and cases with
values outside the bounds are excluded. After selecting this option, enter integer values for the
lower and upper bounds.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="use_specified_values" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Use Specified Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">After selecting this option, specify a numeric Grouping Variable code for Group 1 and
another for Group 2. All other codes of the grouping variable will be excluded from the
analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="use_stepwise_method" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Use Stepwise Method</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Uses stepwise analysis to control variable entry and removal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="usl" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">USL</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The fixed upper control limit.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="utility_score" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Utility Score</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The utility score, or part-worth, provides a quantitative measure of the preference for
a factor level, with larger values corresponding to greater preference. Utility scores can be
negative, with larger negative values corresponding to lower preference.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="vaf" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">VAF</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The amount of variance in the data that is explained by the model. Better models
generally explain more variance.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="valid_12" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Valid</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Valid cases for multiple response analysis must respond to at least one item in the
multiple response set.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="valid" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Valid</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Valid cases having neither the system-missing value, nor a value defined as
user-missing.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="valid_11" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Valid</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of valid cases by category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="valid_cscoxreg" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Valid (CSCoxreg)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Cases used in the analysis must have valid values for all design variables, time
variables, factors, and covariates. Time variables must be non-negative. System- and user-missing
values are always treated as invalid for scale variables. User-missing values for categorical
variables can optionally be treated as valid.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="valid_probit" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Valid (Probit)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases that have not been rejected for any of the reasons shown in the
table. Valid cases are used in the analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="valid_active_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Valid Active Cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases (objects) that could be used to determine a solution and do not
have missing values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="validation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Validation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The method used to validate the tree. Crossvalidation divides the sample into a number
of subsamples, or folds. Split-sample validation generates a model using a training sample and then
tests that model on a hold-out (testing) sample. Resubstitution is the tree building method without
validation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="validation_rule_violations" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Validation Rule Violations</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The list of single- and cross-variable rules violated by the case.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="valid_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Valid Cases</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of cases/objects that have values within the valid range for all variables.
The valid range for a variable is the range 1 through the specified number of categories.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="valid_count_percentage" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Valid Count Percentage</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The valid cell count as a percentage of the total.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="valid_n" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Valid N</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of valid cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="valid_n_listwise" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Valid N (Listwise)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of valid cases after cases with missing values for any selected variable
have been excluded.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="valid_n_col_pct_tables_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Valid N Col % (Tables Statistic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of all the cases in the column which have valid values for the
summarized variable that are in the cell. Available for summarized variables and their totals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="valid_n_layer_pct_tables_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Valid N Layer % (Tables Statistic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of all the cases in the layer which have valid values for the summarized
variable that are in the cell. Available for summarized variables and their totals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="valid_n_row_pct_tables_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Valid N Row % (Tables Statistic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of all the cases in the row which have valid values for the summarized
variable that are in the cell. Available for summarized variables and their totals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="valid_n_subtable_pct_tables_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Valid N Subtable % (Tables Statistic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of all the cases in the smallest subtable containing the cell which have
valid values for the summarized variable that are actually in the cell. Available for summarized
variables and their totals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="valid_n_table_pct_tables_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Valid N Table % (Tables Statistic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of all the cases in the table which have valid values for the summarized
variable that are in the cell. Available for summarized variables and their totals.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="valid_percent" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Valid Percent</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The percentage of cases having a particular value when only cases with nonmissing
values are considered. It is obtained by dividing the valid number of cases by the total number of
cases and multiplying by 100.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="value_bootstrap" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the statistic, computed using the original sample.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="value_17" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the value of the observation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="value_18" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the requested statistic.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="response_rate_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Sets the natural response rate in the model (select this item when you know the natural
response rate in advance). Enter the natural response proportion (the proportion must be less than
1). For example, if the response occurs 10% of the time when the stimulus is 0, enter 0.10.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="value_6" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Individual old value to be recoded into a new value. The value must be the same data
type (numeric or string) as the variable(s) being recoded.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="value_20" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The values of the dichotomous test variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Enter a value for the case-selection variable to limit the analysis to a subset of
cases having this value for the selected variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="valuedivdf" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Value/df</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the goodness-of-fit statistic (the deviance or chi-square statistic)
divided by its degrees of freedom. This value can be useful in diagnosing overdispersion in models
where the value of the scale parameter is thought to be a priori known.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="value_display" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Value (Display)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variable name and data value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="value_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">VALUE(variable)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">VALUE(variable). Numeric. Returns the value of variable, ignoring user missing-value
definitions for variable, which must be a numeric variable name or a vector reference to a variable
name.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<?Pub Caret 159?>
<glossentry id="value_label" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Value Label</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Descriptive label that can be assigned to a particular value of a discrete
variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="valuelabel_varname" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">VALUELABEL(varname)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">VALUELABEL(varname). String. Returns the value label for the value of variable or an
empty string if there is no label for the value. The value of varname must be a variable name; it
cannot be an expression.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="value_labels_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Value Labels</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The columns contain value labels.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="value_of_contrast" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Value of Contrast</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Value calculated by summing the products of the contrast coefficients and the means of
each group. A linear combination of means. For example, for contrast coefficients of 0.5, 0.5, and
-1, the value of the contrast is 0.5 * ( Mean 1) + 0.5 * (Mean 2) - 1 * (Mean 3).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="value_of_loss_function" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Value of Loss Function</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">In constrained nonlinear regression problems, you can specify your own loss function.
This is the value of the function for the current estimates of the model parameters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="values" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Categories have user-specified expected proportions. Enter a value greater than 0 for
each category of the test variable, and click Add. Each time you add a value, it appears at the
bottom of the value list. The sequential order of the values is important, since it corresponds to
the ascending order of the category values of the test variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="values_12" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the values corresponding to the categories.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="values_10" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Values</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The Values dimension displays values and their corresponding significance levels.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="values_are_group_midpoints" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Values Are Group Midpoints</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Calculates Percentile Value statistics and the median under the assumption that your
data have been grouped, and the values in the data are the midpoints of the original groups.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="values_listbox" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Values Listbox</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the user-specified expected proportions. Each time you add a value, it appears at
the bottom of the value list. The sequential order of the values is important, since it corresponds
to the ascending order of the category values of the test variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="van_der_waerden_probability_plot" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Van der Waerden (Probability Plot)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Calculates the expected normal distribution using the formula r/(n+1), where n is the
number of observations, and r is the rank, ranging from 1 to n.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="van_der_waerden_rank_cases" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Van der Waerden (Rank Cases)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Van der Waerden's transformation, defined by the formula r/(w+1), where w is the sum of
the case weights and r is the rank, ranging from 1 to w.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="var_intercept" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Var: Intercept</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The variance term for the intercept.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="var_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Var(^1)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A variance term for the Unstructured Correlations covariance structure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="var_1_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Var\: [:^1:]1</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The variance term for the specified level of the specified effect.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="var_pct1eqpct2_mult_1eq_2_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Var\: [\[%1=%2\]:*\[^1=^2\]:]1</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The variance term for the specified interaction effect.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="var_and_var" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Var &amp; Var</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Results are displayed for the two variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variable_21" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Labels the independent variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="multiple_correspondence_analysis" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variable (generic)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An attribute or quantity being measured, such as age or gender.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variable_s_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variable(s)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the variables you have chosen for the analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variable_s" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variable(s)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the variables you have chosen for the analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variable_1_and_variable_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variable 1 and Variable 2</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the pair of variables currently selected.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variable_impact" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variable Impact</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is the proportional contribution of the variable to the deviation of the case from
its peer group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variable_label_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variable Label</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Contains descriptive text of up to 256 bytes used to describe variables</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variable_label_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variable Label</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Descriptive label for the variable. Variable labels can be up to 256 bytes long, but
some procedures do not display all 256 bytes.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variable_label" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variable Label</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Contains descriptive text of up to 256 bytes used to label output. The variable label
typically appears beside the variable name, and serves to describe the meaning or origin of the
variable. (The output from many procedures displays only about 40 characters from the variable
label.)</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variable_list" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variable List</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Leaves the variables in the order they were selected.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variable_names" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variable Names</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A name assigned to a variable. The name can be up to 64 bytes in length. It must begin
with a letter (A-Z) or the @ character. The remaining characters in the name can be any letter, any
digit, or any of the five characters _.@#$.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variable_norm" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variable Norm</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The typical value of the variable for the peer group to which this case belongs.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variables" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the variables you have chosen for the analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variables_26" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">These variables are discarded from consideration because their values are constants
after weighting.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variables_24" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the variables selected for analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variables_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variables</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variables are clustered. Distances are computed between variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variables_created" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variables Created</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the names of the variables created from the Save New Variables dialog box or the
SAVE subcommand. The variables appear in the Data Editor.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variables_created_or_modified" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variables Created or Modified</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A list of variables that were either added to or modified in the working file.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variables_entered" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variables Entered</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the variables entered at each step.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variable_sets" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variable Sets</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Indicates whether or not the data file has defined subsets of variables</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variables_in_set" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variables in Set</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the variables you have chosen for the Multiple Response Set. The variables need
to be coded and a set name needs to be supplied.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variables_removed" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variables Removed</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the variables removed at each step.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variable_type" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variable Type</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Fundamental variable type: string or numeric. Dates and times are numeric variables
with special formatting.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variable_value" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variable Value</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value of the variable for this case.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variable_weight" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variable Weight</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The weight assigned to this variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of dispersion around the mean, equal to the sum of squared deviations from
the mean divided by one less than the number of cases. The variance is measured in units that are
the square of those of the variable itself.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variance_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Summary statistics for item variances. The smallest, largest, and average item
variances, the range and variance of item variances, and the ratio of the largest to the smallest
item variances are displayed.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gbar12" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variance (Graph Summary Function)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of how much observations vary from the mean, expressed in squared units.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variance_numexpr_numexpr_.." xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">VARIANCE(numexpr,numexpr[,..])</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">VARIANCE(numexpr,numexpr[,..]). Numeric. Returns the variance of its arguments that
have valid values. This function requires two or more arguments, which must be numeric. You can
specify a minimum number of valid arguments for this function to be evaluated.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variance_component" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variance Component</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Individual parts that are combined linearly to make up the expected mean square of an
effect.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variance_components" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variance Components</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This structure assigns a scaled identity (ID) structure to each of the specified random
effects.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variance_distance_measure" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variance Distance Measure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Dissimilarity measure for binary data that has a minimum value of 0 and no upper limit.
Computed from a fourfold table as (b+c)/(4(a+b+c+d)) where a represents cases present on both items,
d represents cases absent on both items, and b and c represent cases present on one item but absent
on the other.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variance_effect" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variance Effect</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The values are the coefficients of the variance of the specified effect, used in
computing the expected mean square.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variance_error" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variance error</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The values are the coefficients of the variance of error, used in computing the
expected mean square.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variance_inflation_factor_vif" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variance Inflation Factor (VIF)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The reciprocal of the tolerance. As the variance inflation factor increases, so does
the variance of the regression coefficient, making it an unstable estimate. Large VIF values are an
indicator of multicollinearity.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variance_proportions" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variance Proportions</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The proportions of the variance of the estimate accounted for by each principal
component associated with each of the eigenvalues. Collinearity is a problem when a component
associated with a high condition index contributes substantially to the variance of two or more
variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="variation_coefficients" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Variation Coefficients</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Coefficients of variation (standard deviation divided by the mean) for various
measurements.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="varimax_method" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Varimax Method</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">An orthogonal rotation method that minimizes the number of variables that have high
loadings on each factor. This method simplifies the interpretation of the factors.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="varn_dependent" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Varn Dependent</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The procedure declares each variable in turn as dependent and computes the directional
measure. The choice of whether a variable is dependent or independent depends on the nature of the
problem. These measures range from 0 (knowledge of independent variable no help in predicting
dependent variable) to 1(independent variable perfectly predicts the dependent variable).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="var-var" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Var-Var</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Results are displayed for the difference between two variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="vc_variance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">VC variance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A variance term for the Variance Components covariance structure.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="spss_12_compatible" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Version 12 Compatible</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The random number generator used in version 12 and previous releases. If you need to
reproduce randomized results generated in previous releases based on a specified seed value, use
this random number generator.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="vertical_icicle_plot" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Vertical Icicle Plot</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A figure used to summarize the formation of clusters during a cluster analysis. Its
name comes from its resemblance to a row of icicles hanging from eaves. Cases form the columns of
the display; steps form the rows. Cases joined horizontally form clusters.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="visible_category" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Visible Category</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays the dimensions and categories of the currently displayed layer.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wald" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wald</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Wald's statistic for testing significance of parameter estimates.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wald_onesample" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wald</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Classical asymptotic interval and probably most widely known, but can have 
poor coverage properties and be very liberal even in large samples.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wald_onesample_cont" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wald (Continuity Corrected)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Continuity-corrected version of Wald interval. Suffers from similar limitations.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wald_onesample_z" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wald</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Classical asymptotic Z test using standard error not assuming the null hypothesis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wald_onesample_cont_z" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wald (Continuity Corrected)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Continuity-corrected version of the Wald Z test, resulting in larger p values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wald_independent_z" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wald</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Classical interval based on inverting the Wald asymptotic Z test using a standard error not 
assuming the null hypothesis. Coverage levels tend to be below the nominal level, especially for situations 
involving extreme proportions.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wald_independent_cont_z" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wald (Continuity Corrected)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Continuity-corrected version of the classical Wald interval. Generally too conservative, 
even in large samples.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wald_independent_z_tests" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wald</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Classical asymptotic Z test using standard error not assuming the null hypothesis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wald_independent_cont_z_tests" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wald (Continuity Corrected)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Continuity-corrected version of the classical Wald Z test. Typically too conservative.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wald_h0" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wald H0</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Classical asymptotic Z test using standard error assuming the null hypothesis. Equal to signed 
square root of the Pearson chi-square statistic for the 2 x 2 table of groups by responses.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wald_h0_cont" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wald H0 (Continuity Corrected)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Continuity-corrected version of the Wald H0 test. Equal to the signed square root of the Yates 
continuity-corrected version of the Pearson chi-square for the 2 x 2 table of groups by responses.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wald_paired" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wald</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Classical asymptotic Wald interval using standard error of the difference not assuming the null 
\hypothesis. Generally does not provide stated coverage levels.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wald_paired_cont" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wald (Continuity Corrected)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Continuity-corrected version of the asymptotic Wald interval using standard error of the difference 
not assuming the null hypothesis. Generally performs better than the Wald interval, but coverage levels often 
remain below stated levels.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wald_paired_z" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wald</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Classical asymptotic Z test using standard error of difference not assuming the null hypothesis. 
May be liberal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wald_paired_cont_z" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wald (Continuity Corrected)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Continuity-corrected version of classical Wald test using standard error of difference not assuming 
the null hypothesis. May be liberal.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wald_chi-square" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wald Chi-Square</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is a statistic for testing hypotheses. It has an asymptotic chi-square
distribution with the listed degrees of freedom. If the significance value of the test is less than
0.05, you can reject the null hypothesis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wald_confidence_intervals" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wald Confidence Intervals</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Computation of Wald confidence intervals is based upon the asymptotic normality of the
parameter estimates; thus, the upper and lower bounds of the interval correspond to percentiles of a
normal distribution with mean equal to the parameter estimate and standard deviation equal to the
standard deviation of the parameter estimate.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wald_confidence_intervals_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wald Confidence Intervals for Exp(B)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The upper and lower bounds of a confidence interval for an exponentiated parameter
estimate are simply the exponentiated bounds of the confidence interval for the parameter
estimate.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wald-wolfowitz_runs_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wald-Wolfowitz Runs Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A nonparametric test of the hypothesis that two samples come from the same population.
Requires at least an ordinal scale of measurement. The values of the observations from both samples
are combined and ranked from smallest to largest. Runs are sequences of values from the same group.
If the samples are from the same population, the two groups should be randomly scattered throughout
the ranking.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="waller-duncan_post_hoc" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Waller-Duncan (Post Hoc)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Multiple comparison test based on a t statistic; uses a Bayesian approach.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="def_warning" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Warning (output item type)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Warnings generated during the execution of the commands. You can activate it as a text
object.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="waverage" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Waverage</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The pth percentile is estimated using a weighted average around the np-1 data
point.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="weighted" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Weighted</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The statistic computed based upon the estimated number of units in the population.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="weighted_count_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Weighted Count</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The estimated number of units in the population that fall into this category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="weighted_count" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Weighted Count</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Number of cases in each category. This measure is weighted by the weight variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="weighted_frequency" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Weighted Frequency</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This is the positive integer weight given to the object.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="weighted_least_squares_wls" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Weighted Least Squares (WLS)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">WLS gives observations different weight, perhaps to compensate for different precision
of measurement. This is not the same as the use of case weights that change the effective sample
size. To obtain a WLS solution, specify a weighting variable. For weighted residual analysis, save
the residuals or predicted values as new variables, then multiply these new variables by the square
root of the weighting variable specified here.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="weighted_linear_term" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Weighted Linear Term</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The sum of squares for the linear term when group sizes are included in computing the
orthogonal polynomial coefficients.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="weighted_mean_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Weighted Mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The result of dividing the mean of the numerator by the mean of the denominator. It is
also the mean of the ratios weighted by the denominator.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="weighted_mean" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Weighted Mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of central tendency. The arithmetic average; the sum divided by the number of
cases. This measure is weighted by the weight variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="weighted_mean_square" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Weighted Mean Square</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The weighted mean square accounts for user-specified case weights.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="weighted_median" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Weighted Median</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of central tendency not sensitive to outlying values. The value above and
below which half the case weights fall, the 50th percentile. This measure is weighted by the weight
variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="weighted_mode" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Weighted Mode</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The value with the greatest sum of weights. If several values share the greatest sum of
weights, each of them is a mode.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="weighted_unfiltered_n" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Weighted N (unfiltered)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The weighted number of cases, ignoring filter status.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="weighted_percent" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Weighted Percent</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The estimated percentage of units in the population that fall into this category.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="weighted_predicted" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Weighted Predicted</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Weighted unstandardized predicted values. Available only if a WLS variable was
previously selected.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="weighted_residuals" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Weighted Residuals</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Weighted unstandardized residuals. Available only if a WLS variable was previously
selected.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="weighted_standard_deviation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Weighted Standard Deviation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of dispersion around the mean, expressed in the same units of measurement as
the observations, equal to the square root of the variance. This measure is weighted by the weight
variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="weighted_standard_error_of_mean" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Weighted Standard Error of Mean</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of how much the value of the mean may vary from sample to sample taken from
the same distribution. It is the standard deviation of the distribution of all possible means, if
samples of the same size were repeatedly taken. This measure is weighted by the weight
variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="weighted_sum" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Weighted Sum</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The sum or total of the values, across all cases with nonmissing values. This measure
is weighted by the weight variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="weighted_sum_of_squares" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Weighted Sum of Squares</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The sum of squares is a measure of variation in the dependent variable, usually used to
evaluate the performance of a model. For example, the residual sum of squares for a model is the sum
of squared deviations between the observed and model predicted values of the dependent variable. The
weighted sum of squares accounts for user-specified case weights.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="weighted_valid_n" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Weighted Valid N</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of valid cases after cases with missing values for any selected variable
have been excluded. This measure is weighted by the weight variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="weighted_variance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Weighted Variance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A measure of dispersion around the mean, equal to the sum of squared deviations from
the mean divided by one less than the number of cases. The variance is measured in units that are
the square of those of the variable itself. This measure is weighted by the weight variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="weights_prefscal" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Weights (prefscal)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The proximity weights specified on the multidimensional unfolding weight
variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="weights_and_component_loadings" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Weights and component loadings</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The regression coefficients in each dimension for every quantified variable in a set,
where the object scores are regressed on the quantified variables, and the projection of the
quantified variable in the object space. Provides an indication of the contribution each variable
makes to the dimension within each set.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="weight_variable_wls" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Weight Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The data are weighted by the reciprocal of this variable raised to a power. The
regression equation is calculated for each of a specified range of power values and indicates the
power that maximizes the log-likelihood function.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="weight_variable_file_information" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Weight Variable (file information)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">If weighting is on, name of the weight variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="welch" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Welch</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The Welch statistic tests for the equality of group means. This statistic is preferable
to the F statistic when the assumption of equal variances does not hold.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wilcoxon_gehan_statistic" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wilcoxon (Gehan) Statistic</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A nonparametric statistic used to test the equality of "typical" survival times for two
or more groups. If significant, the test indicates that the survival times are different.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wilcoxon_signed-rank_test" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wilcoxon Signed-Rank Test</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A nonparametric procedure used with two related variables to test the hypothesis that
the two variables have the same distribution. It makes no assumptions about the shapes of the
distributions of the two variables. This test takes into account information about the magnitude of
differences within pairs and gives more weight to pairs that show large differences than to pairs
that show small differences. The test statistic is based on the ranks of the absolute values of the
differences between the two variables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wilcoxon_w_mann-whitney" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wilcoxon W (Mann-Whitney)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The sum of ranks for the larger of the two groups in the Mann-Whitney Wilcoxon rank sum
test. If the two groups are the same size, W is computed for the second of the two groups listed on
your output.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wilks_chi-square" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wilks' Chi-Square</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A chi-square transformation of Wilks' lambda is used to determine significance. If the
significance value is small (less than 0.10) the group means differ.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wilks_lambda" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wilks' Lambda</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A multivariate test of significance, sometimes called the U statistic. Lambda ranges
between 0 and 1, with values close to 0 indicating the group means are different and values close to
1 indicating the group means are not different (equal to 1 indicates all means are the same).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wilson_score" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wilson Score</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Classical score test-based interval using a standard error under the null hypothesis. 
A recommended method for sample sizes under 40.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wilson_score_cont" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Wilson Score (Continuity Corrected)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Continuity-corrected version of the Wilson Score interval. Tends to be conservative and 
unnecessarily long.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="winters_additive" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Winters' additive</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This model is appropriate for series with a linear trend and a seasonal effect that
does not depend on the level of the series. Its smoothing parameters are level, trend, and season.
Winters' additive exponential smoothing is most similar to an ARIMA model with zero orders of
autoregression, one order of differencing, one order of seasonal differencing, and p + 1 orders of
moving average, where p is the number of periods in a seasonal interval (for monthly data, p =
12).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="winters_multiplicative" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Winters' multiplicative</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This model is appropriate for series with a linear trend and a seasonal effect that
depends on the level of the series. Its smoothing parameters are level, trend, and season. Winters'
multiplicative exponential smoothing is not similar to any ARIMA model.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gexsmooth03" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Winters Model (Exponential Smoothing)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The Winters model assumes that the series has a linear trend and multiplicative
seasonal variation (its magnitude increases or decreases with the overall level of the series).</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="with_effects" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">With Effects</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Enters the covariates at the same time the factor effects are evaluated. Available only
if one or more covariates are in the model and the Hierarchical or Experimental method is used.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="within_groups" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Within Groups</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Variability of the observations in a group about their group mean. Sometimes referred
to as error variation.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="within-groups" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Within-Groups</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The pooled within-groups covariance matrix is used to classify cases.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="within-groups_correlation" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Within-Groups Correlation</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays a pooled within-groups correlation matrix that is obtained by averaging the
separate covariance matrices for all groups before computing the correlations.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="within-groups_covariance" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Within-Groups Covariance</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Displays a pooled within-groups covariance matrix, which may differ from the total
covariance matrix. The matrix is obtained by averaging the separate covariance matrices for all
groups.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="within-groups_log_determinants" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Within-Groups Log Determinants</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The pooled within-groups log determinant is obtained by averaging the separate
determinants for all groups before computing the log determinant.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="within-groups_variability" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Within-Groups Variability</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The part of total variability in the dependent variable due to error. This estimate of
variability uses the variances (standard deviations squared) of each group.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="within_people" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Within People</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The part of total variability in the scale that can be accounted for by differences
within people.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="within_percent_of_median" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Within Percent of Median</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This reports the percentage of ratios within the specified percentage of the median.
The lower end of the interval is equal to (1-0.01*value)*median, and the upper end is equal to
(1+0.01*value)*median.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="within-subjects_3" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Within-Subjects</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A within-subjects factor distinguishes measurements made on the same subject or
case.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="within-subject_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Within-Subject Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The combination of values of the within-subject variables defines the ordering of
measurements within subjects; thus, the combination of within-subject and subject variables uniquely
defines each measurement. For example, the combination of Period, Hospital ID and Patient ID
defines, for each case, a particular office visit for a particular patient within a particular
hospital. If the dataset is already sorted so that each subject's repeated measurements occur in a
contiguous block of cases and in the proper order, it is not strictly necessary to specify a
within-subjects variable; however, it's generally a good idea to make use of within-subject
variables to ensure proper ordering of measurements.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wls" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">WLS</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Allows you to obtain a weighted least-squares model. Data points are weighted by the
reciprocal of their variances. This means that observations with large variances have less impact on
the analysis than observations associated with small variances. If the value of the weighting
variable is zero, negative, or missing, the case is excluded from the analysis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="wls_weight" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">WLS Weight</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Lists the numeric variable containing the weights for weighted least-squares analysis.
If the value of the weighting variable is zero, negative, or missing, the case is excluded from the
analysis. A variable already used in the model cannot be used as a weighting variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="valuedivdf_1" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Working Correlation Matrix Structure</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This correlation matrix represents the within-subject dependencies. Its size is
determined by the number of measurements, and thus the combination of values of within-subject
variables. The available structures include independent, AR(1), exchangeable, m-dependent, and
unstructured.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="xmultbeta" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">X*Beta</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Linear predictor score. The sum of the product of mean-centered covariate values and
their corresponding parameter estimates for each case.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="x11_arima" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">X11 ARIMA</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A procedure based on the Statistics Canada modification to the U.S. Bureau of the
Census Method II-X-11 seasonal adjustment program, used by many government agencies and businesses
worldwide for analyzing time series with seasonal effects.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="gcontrol01" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">X-Bar, R (Range) and s (Standard Deviation) Charts</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Plot measurements of a process over time. X-Bar charts plot the mean within each
subgroup or time interval, R charts plot subgroup ranges, and S charts plot the standard deviation
within each subgroup. X-Bar charts are generally interpreted in conjunction with either an R Chart
or an s chart.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="xdate.date_datevalue" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">XDATE.DATE(datevalue)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">XDATE.DATE(datevalue). Numeric. Returns the date portion from a numeric value that
represents a date. The argument can be a number, a date format variable, or an expression that
resolves to a date. To display the result as a date, apply a date format to the variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="xdate.hour_datevalue" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">XDATE.HOUR(datetime)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">XDATE.HOUR(datetime). Numeric. Returns the hour (an integer between 0 and 23) from a
value that represents a time or a datetime. The argument can be a number, a time or datetime
variable or an expression that resolves to a time or datetime value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="xdate.jday_datevalue" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">XDATE.JDAY(datevalue)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">XDATE.JDAY(datevalue). Numeric. Returns the day of the year (an integer between 1 and
366) from a numeric value that represents a date. The argument can be a number, a date format
variable, or an expression that resolves to a date.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="xdate.mday_datevalue" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">XDATE.MDAY(datevalue)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">XDATE.MDAY(datevalue). Numeric. Returns the day of the month (an integer between 1 and
31) from a numeric value that represents a date. The argument can be a number, a date format
variable, or an expression that resolves to a date.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="xdate.minute_datevalue" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">XDATE.MINUTE(datetime)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">XDATE.MINUTE(datetime). Numeric. Returns the minute (an integer between 0 and 59) from
a value that represents a time or a datetime. The argument can be a number, a time or datetime
variable, or an expression that resolves to a time or datetime value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="xdate.month_datevalue" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">XDATE.MONTH(datevalue)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">XDATE.MONTH(datevalue). Numeric. Returns the month (an integer between 1 and 12) from a
numeric value that represents a date. The argument can be a number, a date format variable, or an
expression that resolves to a date.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="xdate.quarter_datevalue" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">XDATE.QUARTER(datevalue)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">XDATE.QUARTER(datevalue). Numeric. Returns the quarter of the year (an integer between
1 and 4) from a numeric value that represents a date. The argument can be a number, a date format
variable, or an expression that resolves to a date.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="xdate.second_datevalue" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">XDATE.SECOND(datetime)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">XDATE.SECOND(datetime). Numeric. Returns the second (a number between 0 and 60) from a
value that represents a time or a datetime. The argument can be a number, a time or datetime
variable or an expression that resolves to a time or datetime value.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="xdate.tday_timevalue" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">XDATE.TDAY(timevalue)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">XDATE.TDAY(timevalue). Numeric. Returns the number of whole days (as an integer) from a
numeric value that represents a time interval. The argument can be a number, a time format variable,
or an expression that resolves to a time interval.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="xdate.time_datevalue" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">XDATE.TIME(datetime)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">XDATE.TIME(datetime). Numeric. Returns the time portion from a value that represents a
time or a datetime. The argument can be a number, a time or datetime variable or an expression that
resolves to a time or datetime value. To display the result as a time, apply a time format to the
variable.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="xdate.week_datevalue" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">XDATE.WEEK(datevalue)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">XDATE.WEEK(datevalue). Numeric. Returns the week number (an integer between 1 and 53)
from a numeric value that represents a date. The argument can be a number, a date format variable,
or an expression that resolves to a date.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="xdate.wkday_datevalue" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">XDATE.WKDAY(datevalue)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">XDATE.WKDAY(datevalue). Numeric. Returns the day-of-week number (an integer between 1,
Sunday, and 7, Saturday) from a numeric value that represents a date. The argument can be a number,
a date format variable, or an expression that resolves to a date.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="xdate.year_datevalue" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">XDATE.YEAR(datevalue)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">XDATE.YEAR(datevalue). Numeric. Returns the year (as a four-digit integer) from a
numeric value that represents a date. The argument can be a number, a date format variable, or an
expression that resolves to a date.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="x_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">X Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Select a variable for the horizontal x-axis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="yates_correction_for_continuity" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Yates' Correction for Continuity</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A correction sometimes applied in the computation of chi-square for 2 X 2 tables to
improve the approximation. Corrected chi-square values are always smaller than uncorrected
values.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="yrmoda_year_month_day" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">YRMODA(year,month,day)</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">YRMODA(year,month,day). Numeric. Returns the number of days from October 15, 1582 to
the date represented by the arguments year, month, and day, which must be integers that form a valid
date since October 15, 1582. Two-digit values of year assume a century based on Options settings
(Edit menu, Options, Data tab). By default, 2-digit years assume a range beginning 69 years prior to
the current date and ending 30 years after the current date..</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="yules_q" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Yule's Q</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A similarity measure for binary data. The 2x2 version of Goodman and Kruskal's gamma. Q
is a function of the cross-ratio for a 2x2 table and has a range of -1 to +1. Computed from a
fourfold table as (ad-bc)/(ad+bc) where a represents cases present on both items, b and c represent
cases present on one item but absent on the other, and d represents cases absent on both items.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="yules_y" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Yule's Y</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A similarity coefficient for binary data. Yule's Y coefficient of colligation is a
function of the cross-ratio for a 2x2 table and has a range of -1 to +1. Computed from a fourfold
table as (SQRT(ad)-SQRT(bc))/(SQRT(ad)+SQRT(bc)) where a represents cases present on both items, b
and c represent cases present on one item but absent on the other, and d represents cases absent on
both items.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="y_variable" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Y Variable</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Select a variable for the vertical y-axis.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="z" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">z</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">A test statistic which, for sufficiently large sample sizes, is approximately normally
distributed. Often it is the ratio of an estimate to its standard error.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="z_2" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Z</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">This test statistic has an approximately normal distribution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry xml:lang="en-us" id="z_3">
<glossterm>
<term>z</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph>The asymptotic test statistic used to test the difference between two group ROC curves, which
follows a standard normal distribution.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="zero_matrix" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Zero Matrix</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The default contrast results matrix.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="zero-order_correlations" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Zero-Order Correlations</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The ordinary correlation coefficients, with no control variables. Values of the
correlation coefficient range from -1 to 1. The sign of the coefficient indicates the direction of
the relationship, and its absolute value indicates the strength, with larger absolute values
indicating stronger relationships.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="zero-order_gammas" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Zero-Order Gammas</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Zero-order gammas are displayed for 2-way tables.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="zero_weights" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">Zero Weights</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">The number of proximities with zero weights.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
<glossentry id="z_score" xml:lang="en-us">
<glossterm>
<term id="term">z score</term>
</glossterm>
<glossdef>
<ph id="def">Also known as a standardized value. To obtain z-scores for a variable, for each case
subtract the variable's mean value and divide by the standard deviation. Z-scores are useful for
finding outliers and comparing values of variables that are measured on different scales.</ph>
</glossdef>
</glossentry>
</topic>
</dita>
<?Pub *0000942562?>
